2018-05-18T15:23:40.713Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-18/crypto-bull-tom-lee-owns-up-after-bitcoin-prediction-goes-awry
It’s pretty difficult to accurately predict what the price of just about anything is going to do in a week’s time, let alone a in month or a year. It’s also tough to admit you’re wrong. One researcher may deserve some credit for owning up after his latest Bitcoin forecast failed to pan out.Thomas LeeThomas Lee, head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, predicted on May 7 that Bitcoin would rally during Consensus, the cryptocurrency conference this week that drew thousands of enthusiasts (and some Lamborghinis) to a packed hotel in Midtown Manhattan.Bitcoin didn’t rally. In fact, cryptocurrencies slumped about 10 percent during the past week, Lee admitted in a report to clients Friday.“Given conferences like Consensus are chances for the community to gather in a centralized place and meet constituents new to the community (growth in attendance), it seems natural that the combination of ‘sanity check’ (all is OK and progress is happening) plus ‘new interest’ (incremental attendance) should strengthen the crypto-community’s conviction,” he wrote. “And coupled with growth in incremental constituents, should have aided crypto-currency prices.”Read more: Crypto wealth sinks $45 billion while Bitcoin bros party in NYCSo what went wrong? Lee said the crypto industry still needs more clarity from regulators like the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as increased adoption by traditional companies.“Crypto still faces significant internal resistance and hurdles within traditional financial institutions,” Lee said. “But it is encouraging, nonetheless, that a large share of incremental attendance are financial institutions.”Fundstrat still expects Bitcoin to be worth $25,000 by the end of this year.— With assistance by Andrea Tan, and Blake Schmidt

2018-05-17T20:44:52.409Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-17/bitcoin-s-hidden-costs
Welcome to Bloomberg Opinion Today, an afternoon roundup of our opinions on business, politics, markets, technology and more. New subscribers can sign up here. To view in your browser, click here. Stocks and bonds fell. Kushner Cos.  chased Qatar cash. Shari Redstone  beat Les Moonves in court.Blockchain is kind of a waste of energy.I mean that literally: A  new study by Dutch blockchain expert Alex de Vries estimates Bitcoin alone uses nearly as much electricity as Ireland, with computers around the world ceaselessly trying to mine the stuff. Bitcoin is on track to use 1.8 percent of the planet’s electricity by next year, or more than today’s entire solar energy output, estimates Grist’s Eric Holthaus. Suck it up, Planet Earth; these  Dunning-Krugerrands ain’t gonna mine themselves.But this is also at least somewhat true figuratively. A recurring theme of Matt Levine’s newsletter (sign up here) is that blockchain enthusiasts keep reinventing wheels finance invented long ago. The latest brainchild: Bitcoin money-market funds. As Matt points out, a Bitcoin money-market fund a) risks “breaking the buck (the Bitcoin) with some frequency.” And b) it is kind of redundant and pointlessly complicated to hold Bitcoin in a money-market fund when you could just … hold Bitcoin.Right now, not too many people are even doing that, and those who do fell off the top of a cryptomountain earlier this year:This helps explain why none of Silicon Valley’s giants can be  bothered to invest much time or effort into blockchain, suggests Lionel Laurent: “Sure, big tech companies and big banks probably suffer from the innovator’s dilemma, and lean towards conservatism. But the promised crypto-revolution hasn't materialized either.”Bitcoin makes fools of skeptics with enough regularity to make me wary of mocking it too much (any more). Oh, why not? Let’s all laugh again at this patent Michael Regan found a few years ago, for  a dog figurine to hide your Bitcoin key:Crypto Dog? That’s definitely worth the energy.Venezuela is holding an “election” this Sunday.  It will be a sham, Bloomberg’s editors write. President Nicolas Maduro’s ineptitude and corruption have been so thorough that Venezuela’s economy is collapsing, despite it having more proven oil reserves than Saudi Arabia. All we can do now is hope the government collapses quickly and try to clean up the pieces. It’s just that bad.President Donald Trump has built high expectations for his North Korea summit, Bloomberg’s editors point out. He should lower those expectations now, give no ground, and make sure he has a plan in the event the summit fails.Tim O’Brien has read through Trump’s latest financial-disclosure form so you don’t have to. And there's a  lot more of interest there than just the apparent admission that the president reimbursed lawyer/fixer/Coen Brothers character Michael Cohen's porn-star hush money:“All 92 pages — in line after mind-numbing line describing the hodgepodge of shell companies, trademarks, licensing deals, skyscrapers, golf courses and other assets that the president owns or draws income from — remind us just how deeply conflicted he is.”If all of this makes you yearn to replace Trump in 2020 with a  traditional, boring president, then Jonathan Bernstein (in his newsletter) is right there with you: "Maybe it's time for a little boredom."For all we worry about robots taking our jobs, we're ignoring the far more impactful issue of the  steady aging of the work force, writes Tyler Cowen. It’s a challenge, in that managers and society must stop catering mainly to the young as they do now. But it’s also an opportunity: “I would suggest that the ability to spot, mobilize and deploy older workers is the next biggest source of competitive advantage in the U.S."The standard model of economic cycles, roughly, holds that as the economy improves, wages rise, then prices rise to match them, then the Fed raises interest rates to stop inflation, then the economy weakens, at which point the Fed cuts rates until the economy improves and the whole cycle begins again.But that really  doesn’t tell the whole story, writes Noah Smith. It certainly doesn’t apply to the current stage of the cycle, in which wages are rising, but inflation isn’t. The Fed would make a huge mistake in raising rates too much now, under the assumption that inflation is definitely going to rise just because wages are.Businesses, meanwhile, need to  stop moaning about how hard it is to find good help and just raise wages already, writes Michael Strain.Since  failing to close a $28 billion deal to buy Rockwell Automation Inc., Emerson Electric Co. has been crying all the way to the bank, writes Brooke Sutherland.Wells Fargo & Co. still  hasn’t gotten a handle on its compliance problems, warns Stephen Gandel.Legalizing marijuana means we’ll lose data on racial bias in arrests. – Cathy O’NeilThere's reason to hope rising SUV sales don’t mean a big decline in fuel economy. – Justin FoxThere’s reason to hope rising bond yields  don’t mean a big decline in stocks. – Robert Burgess Italy’s populists  want to have their cake and eat it too, just like Brexiteers.  – Ferdinando GiuglianoThe Pope has a warning about  credit default swaps. Working for Barclays is  like working for McDonald’s. An  AI tried to write this.Note: Please send Big Macs, suggestions and kicker ideas to Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.net.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Timothy L. O'Brien at tobrien46@bloomberg.net

2018-05-17T14:40:43.798Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-17/put-your-bitcoins-in-the-money-market
Crypto money markets.Cryptocurrency markets keep rediscovering financial history for themselves, I keep saying every day, and now they have discovered money-market funds:A new startup called Compound Labs Inc. is creating money markets for crypto assets, which generally are held in exchanges or wallets but remain idle and don’t earn anything.To address this, San Francisco-based Compound has set up smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain that would earn interest on crypto assets for exchanges, consumers and investors. It would work like overnight money-market sweep accounts.“Every dollar you have that’s not paper gets swept into an overnight rate somewhere,” said Robert Leshner, founder and chief executive at Compound. “That’s exactly what we’re trying to create.”So, first of all, what is your numéraire? Money-market funds aim to achieve a stable value, but in what currency? One assumes it is whatever gets swept: If you have 100 Bitcoins that get swept overnight on Monday, you’d hope that they’d come back worth like 100.01 Bitcoins on Tuesday, even if those 100.01 Tuesday Bitcoins are worth twice, or half, as many dollars as the 100 Monday ones. Leshner explains by email:You have 100 bitcoins, and you send them to Compound's smart contract.They get loaned to traders who want to buy even more volatile investments (like other tokens) using the bitcoin, or to short-sellers who hate bitcoin, and want to sell it for dollars. Those borrowers have to maintain an excess of collateral (any other tokenized asset) at Compound.The next day you have … 100.01 bitcoins inside Compound.Okay sure but … “even more volatile” is … pretty volatile? Like, if I borrow $100 from you to buy three magic beans, and I overcollateralize that loan by leaving six magic beans with you, you are still exposed to the vagaries of the magic-bean market, you know? I worry that a Bitcoin money-market fund that makes its money by, like, margin lending to initial-coin-offering speculators might run the risk of breaking the buck (the Bitcoin) with some frequency.But there is a deeper conceptual strangeness to this. I used to design derivatives for a living at an investment bank. Occasionally in derivatives design you need to put a pot of cash somewhere, and it was a dumb slow revelation to me how hard it is to … just … have ... a pot of cash. You can keep $20 in your wallet, but if you want to hold $20 million, then you will face a series of agonizing choices. You can keep it all in literal cash—in boxes of $20 bills in the corner of your office—but that is not very secure and not very convenient; if you want to send it to someone you have to put the boxes on a plane with a security guard. And there is no convenient electronic form of just, in the strictest sense, cash. You can put your dollars in a bank account, but the bank could go bust. (Deposit insurance has limits.) You can buy Treasury bills, but those mature, and meanwhile can lose (a tiny bit of) value as interest rates change. You can put your money into a money-market fund, but that could, however improbably, lose value too. None of these risks are all that material over an overnight time horizon. But if you have a lot of dollars, and your quite modest goal is “I want to have always exactly this amount of dollars on every day in the future, accessible anywhere, with absolutely no credit or market risk of any kind,” you can’t do it. It is a little boggling, honestly. The reason all of everyone’s dollars are always getting swept up into an overnight rate somewhere—it’s not just because people have a deep desire to get paid interest; it’s also because those dollars have to go somewhere. They can never rest; even your most idle savings-account dollar is constantly being blasted through the economy, being put to use by someone else while you sleep. The interest compensates you for the uncanniness of having to hold your dollars through someone, some not-perfectly-riskless entity. It tells you something about the nature of dollars: that they are not pure entities that you can just conveniently own, that they are instead always somehow obligations of someone else, that they exist only as some form of debt. That is the thing that Bitcoin is solving. Bitcoin is a form of cash that can be held directly by anyone in purely electronic portable transferable form without a bank. (Or a money-market sweep account.) “A purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would allow online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a financial institution.” The reason the cash in your brokerage account gets swept into money-market funds every night is that it’d be idiotic for your broker to keep a bunch of $20 bills in an envelope with your name on it. The reason the Bitcoins in your Bitcoin-exchange account don’t get swept into money-market funds every night is that it’s easy for a Bitcoin exchange to hold onto those Bitcoins electronically, because that is the whole point of Bitcoin. I mean, that is one reason; the other reason is that no one thought of a crypto-money-market sweep account yet. Now they have! Now instead of just directly owning Bitcoins in decentralized form, you can own them through an exchange, and it can own them through a Compound smart contract, and the contract can lend them to some ICO speculator or Bitcoin short-seller, and your Bitcoins can bop off around the blockchain doing productive work in weird places while you sleep, and the whole regular financial system can be recreated in a slightly skewed way.HoweyCoin.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, to demonstrate the risk of unregistered initial coin offerings, launched its own fake ICO for “HoweyCoins.” I mean, they were not especially committed to the premise; as far as I can tell they put up a website for HoweyCoins and also simultaneously a different and better publicized website explaining that “If You Responded To An Investment Offer Like This, You Could Have Been Scammed – HoweyCoins Are Completely Fake!” Anyway like 20 of you sent me this story; I don’t think I’ve ever had more readers mention anything to me. It does make sense that the audience for Money Stuff and the audience for SEC pranks would overlap perfectly.The prank is, I don’t know, fine I guess? The white paper has some good parody blather like “By undercutting the monopoly role of the national governments in creating currency, savings that you may not realize are being kept by the elite and the government will flow to you—the consumer.” But it is missing all the … like … crypto-blather? There are no incomprehensible sections on technical implementation, no funny diagrams explaining how the coin works, no bios of the technical team. The word “blockchain” appears only four times in eight pages; the words “hash” and “ERC-20” don’t appear at all. It’s just a little thin. We  talked a while back about a prank that the Alberta Securities Commission pulled, in which they ran a fake investment seminar “to educate Albertans about the realities of investment fraud.” “Everything about the fake investment opportunity – from the company's name and logo, to Jonathan Fisher's bio and the colour of his tie – was extensively researched,” read the story, and I mentioned that running prank investment frauds for a securities regulator would be a dream job. Next time the SEC wants a prank ICO I’d be happy to help!Also guys the name. I get it. SEC v. W.J. Howey Co. is the Supreme Court case that created the modern test—widely referred to as the “Howey Test”—for what counts as a “security,” a question of significant interest to people trying to figure out which ICOs need to be registered with the SEC. If you are a securities lawyer who works on ICOs, you probably got a teeny grim chuckle out of that. But it doesn’t make sense within the world the SEC is building. HoweyCoin’s pitch is vaguely about travel benefits. It should be called TravelCoin or TripBit or CryptoVoyage, something that makes the reader think “oh yes this was named by someone who thought it was a coin for travel benefits,” not, like, “oh yes this was named by securities lawyers playing a prank.”Oops!There is a common but erroneous belief that securities fraud is only securities fraud when it involves publicly traded companies. “If a public company did this, it would be securities fraud,” people sometimes say about stuff that private companies do that is in fact securities fraud. There is nothing particularly in the law to support this view, but there is an understandable intuition behind it. Regular people buy shares of public companies based on information provided by the companies: Mom-and-pop investors can read a company’s securities filings and decide to buy its stock on the stock exchange, and if those filings are full of lies then the company is entirely to blame and the investors are innocent victims.But private transactions are a little different. Private companies, of course, disclose less information publicly than public ones do. But when venture capitalists buy stakes in private tech companies, or when private-equity firms do leveraged buyouts, they tend to get a lot more information about the companies than regular public investors do when they buy stock on the stock exchange. This is called “due diligence,” and the idea is that sophisticated private investors who are writing very large checks are supposed to be able to ask good questions, and get satisfying answers to those questions, before writing those checks.In practice this often isn’t true—big sexy tech unicorns can raise money with essentially no financial information—but it actually matters that it is true in theory. If you are a sophisticated private-equity investor writing a $100-million check to buy a company, and you have the opportunity to do due diligence and interview company management and review the financial statements and talk to the auditors and examine the customer lists and so forth, and the company sends you a pack of lies, and you don’t catch them and buy the company anyway, then yes, of course, that is the company’s fault, and the company did a bad thing, but it is also your fault too, in a way that it isn’t a public investor’s fault. Your job is to notice that stuff!And so for instance Theranos Inc.’s private investors, who were victims of a “massive fraud,” get quite unsympathetic press: They were rich and sophisticated and had every opportunity to do due diligence, and if they got hoodwinked then that reflects almost as badly on them as it does on the hoodwinkers. It is embarrassing to be the victim of securities fraud when you are a sophisticated large investor who had the opportunity to do due diligence, which means that these frauds are less likely to be pursued than frauds against public investors. Who would want to report them?Yesterday the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice brought civil and criminal securities-fraud cases against three former executives of Constellation Healthcare Technologies Inc. Constellation was actually a publicly traded company, but the fraud charges are not about its public trading—which occurred on  the London Stock Exchange’s AIM market and is therefore none of the SEC’s business—but about a going-private transaction that it completed in early 2017. The buyer was Chinh Chu, who left the Blackstone Group LP to start his own buyout firm, and who put up $82.5 million of equity and borrowed $130 million from banks to do the deal. “Sources who have spoken with Mr Chu say he’s ‘comfortable’ proceeding, having spent $7m and three months work on due diligence alone,” reported Paul Murphy at the time. It didn’t work! Constellation went bankrupt this March, and according to the SEC it was kind of fake. For instance, the SEC tells the story of Constellation’s acquisition of MDRX Medical Billing LLC for $30 million:In reality, MDRX too was a fabrication that Defendants had created based on a genuine Akron, Ohio-based medical-billing business (the “Real Medical-Billing Business”). In October 2015, CHT was contacted by an investment bank about a potential acquisition of the Real Medical-Billing Business.CHT entered into a non-disclosure agreement with the investment bank, which in turn gave Defendants a Microsoft PowerPoint presentation pitching the Real Medical-Billing Business. …The Defendants then altered the investment bank’s PowerPoint presentation pitching the Real Medical-Billing Business to create a sham MDRX “Due Diligence Findings Draft Report” dated October 20, 2015. The sham MDRX report essentially left the entire description of the Real Medical-Billing Business, including the company’s organizational chart, untouched, but inflated the company’s financials and simply changed the company’s name to MDRX, an entirely fictitious entity.Emails among Defendants evidence their fabrication of MDRX. On October 22, 2015, Chivukula forwarded the MDRX PowerPoint to Parmar and Zaharis, noting, “Attached is the updated internal document and presentation. I am not able to remove the background image of [the Real Medical-Billing Business] in the presentation.”And the executives allegedly provided all sorts of fake stuff during Chu’s due diligence; the SEC says that he “relied on Defendants’ materially false and misleading statements and false and fabricated documents in determining whether to enter into the transaction.” You would hope that, in a nine-digit transaction led by a top-tier buyout expert and financed with bank loans, with months of due diligence, someone would notice that, you know, the company’s medical billing business was plagiarized from a real business and still had the real business’s logo in the background. “The filings give us the impression the alleged fraud was less ‘large, complex and brazen’ than the bankruptcy declaration makes it sound, and rather more maladroit and hapless,” writes Alexandra Scaggs, and while I am not sure I completely agree, really you never want to be suckered as badly as this, even by a complex fraud. If the allegations are true then the perpetrators are bad and might go to jail, but it is hard to escape the feeling that the victims look bad too.CBS v. Redstone.We’ve talked over the  last two  days about the terrific drama over CBS Corp.’s board of director’s effort to get rid of its controlling shareholder, Shari Redstone’s National Amusements Inc., by diluting away its voting stock. A lot happened in that case yesterday—first NAI amended CBS’s bylaws to take away the board’s power to dilute it, and then a Delaware court  ordered NAI not to interfere with CBS’s preparations to hold the board meeting today to vote on diluting NAI—but in another sense nothing really happened. CBS still wants to dilute NAI, NAI still doesn’t want to be diluted, what will happen still turns entirely on the decision of the Delaware chancellor hearing the case, and he still hasn’t decided. But he’s supposed to decide today, before the 5 p.m. board meeting, so that is something to look forward to.I actually think this case is extremely straightforward: No, obviously, a board of directors cannot get rid of a controlling shareholder just because they are worried that she might fire them! She’s allowed to fire them! That’s what being a controlling shareholder means! But I am not a Delaware chancellor. And I guess if I were I would draw out the suspense a little. Why not? I bet it’s the most fun he’s had in years. “I've never seen anything like what's transpired here in terms of moving parts,” he said, at the end of yesterday’s hearing.Hedge-fund names. Here is a word cloud or whatever from SumZero of  common features of hedge-fund names, if you are looking for inspiration for your own fund. “Popular themes that popped up on their word chart included nautical terms, alcoholic drinks, and cities in New England,” so please invest in my new fund, Swampscott Tequila Yacht Capital LP.Things happen.‘I Am the Mastermind’: Mohammed bin Salman’s Guide to Getting Rich. Deutsche Bank Got a  Scolding From the Fed. Deutsche Bank shortens paid periods for laid-off staffers. Einhorn Is Having a Hedge-Fund  Midlife Crisis. Wealthfront's experiment in risk parity has a rocky start. JPMorgan Brings  Alternative Investments to Masses With $100,000. Big Four accountancy firms plan for forced break-up. Hedge Fund Managers Shift Billions Over  Carried Interest Concern. Ireland’s banks face long and winding road to recovery. Private-Equity Tech Titans Face Off With New Funds. Companies on higher floors of buildings are more productive. “‘World's oldest woman,’ 128, says she's been miserable every day of her life and her long life is a punishment from God.”If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-18T12:07:12.632Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-18/hot-jobs-bitcoin-and-how-the-baby-boomers-broke-america
My end-of-week morning train reads:Be sure to check out our Masters in Business interview this weekend with wearables expert and venture capitalist Steve Murray, partner at Revolution Growth and Fitbit board member.How Mueller’s First Year Compares to Other Special Counsel InvestigationsSource: FiveThirtyEightWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Barry Ritholtz at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Brooke Sample at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-05-16T14:41:32.252Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-16/high-frequency-trading-for-bitcoins
Crypto colo.It is not original to me, but one thing that I think and write a lot is that cryptocurrency enthusiasts keep re-learning the lessons that regular finance learned decades ago, and that you can see a lot of financial history replaying itself, sped up, by observing cryptocurrency. (I have occasionally also argued that the story of cryptocurrency might actually be the opposite, that it’s about traveling back in time to progressively forget the lessons of modern finance, but never mind that.)In many ways this is a snarky and condescending thing to think; the implication is that the crypto people had simplistic and naive expectations about how trustless decentralized purely market-based finance could work, and are slowly discovering the obvious-to-the-rest-of-us benefits of trust and central counterparties and regulation and non-market mechanisms. On this theory, financial history is a journey from darkness into enlightenment, and those of us who have seen the light can watch in amusement as cryptocurrencies make the same journey.On the other hand that’s not actually how many people think of financial history! “The most important financial innovation that I have seen the past 20 years is the automatic teller machine,” Paul Volcker famously said, and there are plenty of people who would argue that at least the past few decades of financial history have been a story of reckless deregulation, risk, scandal, inequality, over-financialization and rent-seeking. On this view, if cryptocurrency does quickly repeat the history of conventional finance—if in two years we end up with too-big-to-fail Bitcoin banks that use chat rooms to manipulate crypto indexes and set up fake accounts for their users—then that will be bad. Cryptocurrency’s original promise wasn’t simplistic and naive; it was idealistic and pure, and importing all the controversial features of scandal-plagued modern finance will be a tragedy.Anyway Bitcoin has discovered co-location for high-frequency traders:Coinbase Inc., which operates the largest U.S. cryptocurrency exchange, said on Tuesday that it would upgrade its systems with services that cater to ultrafast traders. The upgrade, planned for later this year, will make Coinbase one of the first bitcoin exchanges to welcome the controversial business of high-speed trading. ...San Francisco-based Coinbase plans to introduce “low-latency performance,” the company said in a blog post, using a term in the exchange industry that means extremely fast processing times.Coinbase also said it would allow trading firms to place their servers directly in its data center, a practice called co-location.That’s fine! Catering to professional market makers—having professional market makers, for that matter—is probably a way to make the market better and more useful for most investors. “These additions will allow for a more efficient price discovery process to occur, creating tighter markets, deeper liquidity, and increased certainty of execution,” says Coinbase. It is a stage of enlightenment, an adoption of useful ideas from conventional finance. (Along with the co-location, Coinbase is also “developing several tools to lure institutional investors onto its platform,” including “custodial services where investors can store large amounts of digital currencies”; obviously having a safe place to put your Bitcoins would be a positive development—and a change from Bitcoin’s original promise of decentralization.)On the other hand that’s not actually how many people think about exchanges that cater to high-frequency traders! I mean, co-location, my word:Coinbase’s move is likely to raise eyebrows, since many investors view high-speed traders with suspicion. Critics like Michael Lewis, author of the 2014 best-seller “Flash Boys,” have alleged that HFT firms take advantage of slower-moving players.Some number of people got into Bitcoin because they felt like the conventional financial system was rigged against them, and I suspect that some number of them felt like that because stock exchanges let high-frequency traders pay to run their algorithms right next to the exchanges’ servers so they could have faster access to the exchange than anyone else. And now here we are.Obviously neither of these narratives is really right; financial history is not a story of uninterrupted progress to pure efficiency nor one of absolute corruption by evil entrenched interests. It’s mostly a series of good-faith tradeoffs under uncertainty, many of which could conceivably have gone the other way. U.S. securities laws, for instance, have an onerous and one-size-fits-all set of disclosure requirements for anyone who wants to raise money by selling securities to the general public; this makes it much easier to police fraud, but also makes it harder for disruptive entrepreneurs to raise money to fund real projects and for small investors to participate in high-growth investments. And there are those in the crypto community who argue that the tradeoff should go the other way in cryptocurrency regulation: Let a million blockchain projects bloom, accept that most of them will be frauds, but do it anyway to foster innovation.That is interesting, or at least potentially interesting. (Not all of the regulators are moved by it! But some seem to be.) Watching cryptocurrency create an alternate financial history, one in which some of those choices go another way, in which the balance is struck (say) in favor of more fraud and more innovation, or more democracy and less professionalization, or whatever, is the real appeal of the cryptocurrency revolution. If, after learning all of its lessons, it just converges entirely on old-fashioned finance—but with a different set of powerful incumbent billionaires—then what was the point?Elsewhere in crypto exchanges, here's a story about how Israeli crypto exchange eToro will open to U.S. investors. And: “Crypto Exchange Kraken Says It Will Probably Register With SEC.” And: “‘Privacy Coin’ ZCash Lands on Winklevoss’s Gemini Exchange.”And elsewhere in crypto, the Consensus 2018 conference is going on in New York this week and it is exhausting just to read about. Here’s a story about how the BitMex exchange rented some Lamborghinis to sit around revving outside the conference because, you know, crypto Bitcoin blockchain Lambo Lambo Lambo Lambo Lambo Lambo. Here's a story about how “the smell of marijuana wafted through a half-filled event space in Manhattan’s Meatpacking District, as a group of cryptocurrency believers downed champagne and blood orange margaritas” and listened to Snoop Dogg at an afterparty thrown by Ripple Labs Inc.:Around 9 p.m., Snoop Dogg arrived to an adoring crowd sporting Patagonia fleeces, button-up shirts and Team Ripple tees.“So what we get drunk, so what we smoke weed,” they sang along as Snoop strutted onstage flanked by dancers in rhinestone bras and a person in a canine costume, wearing a jacket with ‘Dirty Dogg’ written on the back.Do you think that the majority of people at the majority of Snoop Dogg shows circa 2018 are wearing button-up shirts and Patagonia fleeces? Surely yes, right? These days I feel like the dress code for any Snoop Dogg show is probably business casual.CBS v. Redstone.We talked yesterday about CBS Corp.’s amazing effort to get rid of its controlling shareholder, Shari Redstone’s National Amusements Inc., by issuing enough voting stock to other shareholders to dilute away NAI’s control. The point of this effort would be to prevent Redstone and NAI from using their voting power to fire CBS’s directors and try to force through a merger with Viacom Inc., another company controlled by Redstone. A flaw in CBS’s plan is that it had to give Redstone notice of the board meeting (scheduled for tomorrow) at which it will issue those new shares, and so she can fire them before they hold that meeting. But it asked a Delaware court to enjoin her from doing that, so it could go and get rid of her in peace.Later yesterday NAI filed its reply to that lawsuit, which denies the basic conflict that CBS claimed—Plaintiffs suggest that NAI intends to force such a merger by removing and replacing the CBS independent directors. There is no truth to that. NAI does not have, and has never had, any intention of replacing the CBS Board or taking other action to force a merger. Plaintiffs’ supposed belief to the contrary is based on unsourced media reports and conjecture.—but also notes that, even if it were true, diluting away Redstone’s ownership “would still be egregiously overbroad and unjustified”:If Plaintiffs were genuinely concerned that NAI would seek to force a merger upon the company, and NAI had not committed to refrain from doing so during the pendency of this action, the relief to which Plaintiffs would even plausibly be entitled would be an injunction to prevent NAI from forcing a merger upon the company while this litigation is pending. It would not be to dilute NAI’s voting power, for all purposes, now and forever. This is an unprecedented usurpation of a controlling stockholder’s voting power.Look: That is obviously correct. If the controlling shareholder wants to do something bad and wrong over the board’s objection, then the board should say no. The board shouldn’t fire the controlling shareholder. That’s not even a thing. You can sort of understand the board’s point of view though. If the chief executive officer wanted to do something bad and wrong over the board’s objection, then the board really might fire him. Firing the CEO for doing bad things is how the board exerts its power, how it demonstrates that it is in control of the corporation. If the board really is supreme, if it is in control of the corporation and the shareholders are just sources of capital, then why shouldn’t it fire the shareholders too, if they make it mad enough?By the way yesterday I expressed some surprise that the board would even try, but apparently there is precedent for boards trying to get rid of their controlling shareholders while the shareholders weren’t looking. (“You go on one long vacation out of cell-phone coverage and, bam, you’re out,” I wrote yesterday.) It didn’t work though. From NAI’s filing:The proposed dilutive stock dividend would be invalid under Adlerstein v. Wertheimer. There, the Court recognized that where a controlling stockholder has the power to forestall board action by preemptively removing directors, the board cannot take steps to neutralize the controlling stockholder’s voting power in order to effectuate the board action. In Adlerstein, the controller had the power to remove certain directors and, recognizing this, the board kept the controller in the dark about a board proposal that destroyed his voting control over the corporation until it was too late for the controller to act. Recognizing that the controller was entitled to an adequate opportunity to protect his interests, the Court held that the directors’ decision to keep the controller uninformed about the proposal invalidated the board’s approval of the proposal.Still, good effort.Oh, disclosure: CBS’s lawyers here are from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, where I worked long ago. I remain very fond of Wachtell, and I don’t think that I am biased when I say that it is undoubtedly the U.S.’s leading advocate of the theory of “board primacy” in corporate governance. I don’t really think they will, but if they do convince a Delaware court that boards of directors should be able to get rid of shareholders they disagree with, then that would be quite a total victory for board primacy.Should index funds be illegal?No, write Thomas Lambert and Michael Sykuta of the University of Missouri, in “The Case for Doing Nothing About Institutional Investors’ Common Ownership of Small Stakes in Competing Firms”:We show that the theory of anticompetitive harm from institutional investors’ common ownership is implausible and that the empirical studies supporting the theory are methodologically unsound. The theory fails to account for the fact that intra-industry diversified institutional investors are also inter-industry diversified and rests upon unrealistic assumptions about managerial decision-making. The empirical studies purporting to demonstrate anticompetitive harm from common ownership are deficient because they inaccurately assess institutional investors’ economic interests and employ an endogenous measure that precludes causal inferences. Even if institutional investors’ common ownership of competing firms did soften market competition somewhat, the proposed policy solutions would themselves create welfare losses that would overwhelm any social benefits they secured. The point that “intra-industry diversified institutional investors are also inter-industry diversified” is worth emphasizing. When people worry that common ownership of multiple firms in the same industry by big institutional investors reduces competition in that industry—the antitrust worry that I often shorthand as “should index funds be illegal?”—the theory is more or less that if all the airlines raise prices, rather than compete with each other on price, then they will all make higher profits and benefit their common shareholders at the expense of customers. But, in general, the mutual funds also own the customers. Lambert and Sykuta write:Intra-industry diversified mutual funds tend also to be inter-industry diversified, and maximizing one industry’s profits requires supracompetitive pricing that tends to reduce the profits of firms in complementary industries. A leading Vanguard fund, for example, holds around 2% of each major airline (1.85% of United, 2.07% of American, 2.15% of Southwest, and 1.99% of Delta) but also holds:• 1.88% of Expedia Inc. (a major retailer of airline tickets),• 2.20% of Boeing Co. (a manufacturer of commercial jets),• 2.02% of United Technologies Corp. (a jet engine producer), • 3.14% of AAR Corp. (the largest domestic provider of commercial aircraft maintenance and repair),• 1.43% of Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (a major automobile rental company), and• 2.17% of Accenture (a consulting firm for which air travel is a significant cost component).Each of those companies—and many others—perform worse when airlines engage in the sort of supracompetitive pricing (and corresponding reduction in output) that maximizes profits in the airline industry.If you do want to believe the index-funds-should-be-illegal thesis, then it may not be as simple as “giant diversified mutual funds that own lots of companies in an industry want to maximize the profits of that industry in anti-competitive ways.” Their objective function has to be a bit broader: They must want to maximize the profits of corporations, broadly, at the expense of individual consumers (and workers). That is a more nebulous theory; it is not as simple as “companies in an industry should try to keep prices high and not undercut each other by competing for market share,” but more like “companies in every industry should try to keep corporate profits high generally and not undercut each other by being nice to household consumers or workers.” It is harder to see how corporate managers would maximize that. But it is a pleasingly Marxist diagnosis of institutional investors as advocates, not of reduced competition in any particular industry, but of the interests of the capitalist class generally against those of workers and consumers. People are worried about unicorns.Private markets, I sometimes say, are the new public markets; companies used to have to go public to raise a lot of money or create secondary liquidity or achieve widespread name recognition or whatever, but now they can do all of that in the private markets. Still companies do go public sometimes, often because their venture capitalists find it easier to cash out by selling to the public than by relying on the relatively limited liquidity in private secondary markets. But the VCs are working on fixing that problem too:New Enterprise Associates, one of Silicon Valley’s largest venture-capital firms, plans to sell off a big chunk of its startup investments in response to a dearth of initial public offerings, according to people familiar with the discussions.The firm plans to sell roughly $1 billion worth of its stakes in about 20 startups to a new firm it is seeking to create, one of the people said, in an effort to return capital to its limited-partner investors. These companies will mostly be those that initially raised money from NEA about eight to 10 years ago.I mean it is all just pots of money. You are a private company, you go to a pot of money called “venture capital,” it gives you some money, you grow, the venture capitalists want to cash out, you go public, and the VCs sell to another pot of money called “mutual funds” or whatever. If the VCs set up a new pot of money called, like, “private secondary liquidity funds” or whatever (you might want a catchier name), then you kind of get rid of the need to go public. The trick is that those funds have to look more like mutual funds than the VC funds do; if they are buying big high-valuation stakes in mature but somehow-not-yet-public companies, then they need to be big, and they can’t expect too many of those stakes to produce enormous returns. On the other hand they shouldn’t expect most of them to go bust, either; they should expect steady reliable returns from most of their mature private investments. They just have to accept that the private markets are the new public markets.Elsewhere:SoftBank Group Corp.’s near-$100 billion Vision Fund has yet to close, but its acquisitive founder is already gauging interest for a second fund.“Vision Fund II will definitely come. It’s just a matter of time,” SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son said during an interview at The Wall Street Journal’s CEO Council meeting in Tokyo on Tuesday.And why shouldn’t all the money in the world be in private tech investment funds?Things happen.Italy Bonds Roiled as Populists Debate $300 Billion Write-Down. How China’s Tencent Uses Deals to Crowd Out Tech Rivals. Novartis General Counsel to Step Down After Cohen Payments. Malaysia Premier Says 1MDB Fund Wrongdoing Larger Than Thought. David Tepper to Buy Carolina Panthers for $2.2 Billion. Two More Activist Funds Build Stakes in ADP.  House-flippers are good. Delaware’s Unwarranted Assumption in DCF Pricing. Salad Leaders Weigh In on Chopped Versus Not-Chopped Controversy. Where Graduates Move After College. Tom Wolfe's best take. Why open plan offices are like a nudist beach. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-16T13:30:52.635Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-16/bitcoin-true-believers-still-waiting-on-conference-fueled-rally
While the Lamborghinis turned out to be rented and the street protest a marketing gimmick for New York’s Blockchain Week, what’s really leaving some virtual currency enthusiasts disillusioned is the failure of Bitcoin to rally.Tom Lee of Fundstrat Global Advisors, one of the industry’s best known analysts, noted prior to this week’s Consensus conference in New York that Bitcoin was relatively cheap and said it was poised to rally even more than in past years. After an initial gain on Monday, the biggest digital coin has slumped.To be fair, Lee did include a caveat, saying that that talk of regulations for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could damp enthusiasm. While there were several panels on regulation at the conference, there were few fresh insights. Lee didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment by phone or email Wednesday.In the meantime, believers in the transformative powers of virtual money will just have to HODL -- one frenzied trader’s misspelled entreaty to hold onto the tokens during an earlier rout that’s become the mantra of Bitcoin purists.— With assistance by Luke Kawa

2018-05-16T17:30:46.473Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-16/square-s-dorsey-is-all-in-on-bitcoin-as-currency-of-the-future
Jack Dorsey, speaking to a crowd of cryptocurrency enthusiasts, showed he was completely in sync with their view that digital currencies are the way of the future.“The internet deserves a native currency; it will have a native currency,” Dorsey, the chief executive officer of Twitter Inc. and Square Inc., said Wednesday at Consensus, a blockchain and cryptocurrency conference in New York City. “I don’t know if it’ll be Bitcoin or not,” he said, but “I hope it will be.”This wasn’t the first time Dorsey had spoken fondly of digital currencies. The executive tweeted in 2016 that he would “love to see a digital currency thrive.” In his role at Square, he has helped promote cryptocurrency. In 2014, the payments company started letting merchants accept Bitcoin. Since then, San Francisco-based Square has said it’s introducing Bitcoin trading for almost all users of its Cash App, which lets users send money to friends and family.Not everyone at Square was as enthusiastic as Dorsey was about the move.“I’ll be frank, this was a pretty contentious move in the company,” he said. A number of people at Square were skeptical about the technology and making access to digital currencies much easier. Even today, Dorsey added, there are debates and even fights over the topic, and some of the company’s board members are resistant to cryptocurrencies.Square reported earlier this month that it reaped $34.1 million in first-quarter revenue from selling Bitcoin, but it cost the company $33.9 million to buy the tokens, meaning Square only made about $200,000.Read more: Snoop Dogg, Dorsey bring crypto to masses during blockchain week“This technology is a fundamental shift to our world and can have so many positive outcomes,” Dorsey said at the Consensus conference, the biggest of about two dozen events during New York’s “Blockchain Week.” “We have to do the work to educate regulators and educate the SEC why this technology is important.”

2018-05-16T17:58:38.253Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-16/don-t-call-bitcoin-rat-poison-union-square-s-fred-wilson-says
The value of cryptocurrencies is ultimately going to accrue to the token, not necessarily the operating business or cash flow of the networks, Union Square Ventures’ managing partner and co-founder Fred Wilson said at the 2018 Consensus Conference in New York Wednesday.Fred Wilson

2018-05-16T01:25:33.709Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-16/bitcoin-mining-equipment-maker-canaan-files-for-1-billion-ipo
Canaan Inc., the world’s second-biggest maker of bitcoin mining hardware, submitted a listing application to the Hong Kong stock exchange.Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG and CMB International Capital Ltd. are joint sponsors of the proposed offering, according to a preliminary prospectus posted late Tuesday. Bloomberg News reported earlier Tuesday that Canaan had filed for an IPO that could raise about $1 billion. The filing didn’t say how much Canaan will seek.Canaan aims to start trading as soon as July, a person with knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be identified because the information is private. The company, based in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou, had revenue of 1.3 billion yuan ($205 million) last year. Net income surged more than sixfold to 361 million yuan, according to Tuesday’s filing.A listing of Canaan would be the first Hong Kong IPO from the cryptocurrency industry. The company has about 15 percent of the global market for bitcoin mining chips and computer equipment, trailing Chinese rival Bitmain, according to a February report from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.Canaan, founded in 2013, sells computer equipment under the “Avalon” brand with fast, customized chips that win digital coins by solving complex math problems. The company’s hardware often ends up in remote locales housing large mining pools that depend on cheap electricity, Co-Chairman Jianping Kong said in an April interview.Canaan co-Chairman Jianping Kong, right, with founder and CEO N.G. Zhang in April.The company also announced last year it was developing dedicated chips for use in artificial intelligence applications.No final decisions have been made, and details of the offering could change, the people said. Kong declined to comment on details of the IPO plans.Canaan was preparing last year to list on China’s National Equities Exchange and Quotations, an over-the-counter market known as the New Third Board, before opting to pursue a Hong Kong IPO.In 2016, electrical equipment manufacturer Shandong Luyitong Intelligent Electric Plc sought to acquire Canaan, according to filings at the time. “Great uncertainties” surrounding China’s securities environment and regulatory policies torpedoed the deal, Shandong Luyitong said in a statement at the time.The ASIC-based blockchain hardware market in China grew to 7.3 billion yuan last year from 50 million yuan in 2013, Canaan said in the filing, and consultant Frost & Sullivan forecasts that it will reach 28.6 billion yuan by 2020.

2018-05-15T20:15:25.349Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/circle-says-bitcoin-miner-bitmain-leads-110-million-investment
Circle Internet Financial Ltd. closed a funding round led by Bitcoin mining giant Bitmain Technologies Ltd. for $110 million -- and now it wants to build a better U.S. dollar.The closely held mobile payments and cryptocurrency trading firm said the investment raises its valuation to about $3 billion, from a reported $480 million in 2016. Bitmain and Circle are now partners in a venture to create fiat-based digital tokens, the first of which will be backed by U.S. dollars and issued by Circle in the summer.The tokens will be the latest in a growing number of so-called stable coins, which are meant to carry all the benefits of cryptocurrencies, but not the volatility. Circle’s USD Coins, or USDC, will be backed one-to-one to the dollar, with the greenbacks to be stored in auditable bank deposits and redeemable by verified buyers.“It’s a version of fiat that can move at the speed of the Internet with global reach, with much less cost, with high levels of security,” Circle Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Allaire said in an interview at an industry conference Monday. “It’s a huge improvement for how fiat money transmission can work around the world for consumers and for businesses who might want to collect digital payment with tokens.”The Boston-based company, which has 7 million users, plans to incorporate USDC in its Circle Pay payment app and in Circle Trade, which provides market-making services, as well as offer it in its cryptocurrency exchange Poloniex.USDC will be an ERC-20 token, based on the Ethereum network. Plans are for the Centre Foundation, which controls who can issue new fiat-backed tokens, to be independent but is controlled by Circle. Bitmain is currently the only other member.Investors in previous funding rounds include Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Baidu Inc. and investment bank China International Capital Corp.Other tokens have attempted to build stable coins with varying degrees of success, backing them with fiat, other cryptos, or algorithms to control supply. Tether is the biggest one with about $2.2 billion in circulating supply, according to CoinMarketCap. While Tether has said all of its coins are backed by dollars held in reserve, the company has yet to provide conclusive evidence or have its accounts audited.For more on stable coins read: Race for Stable Cryptos Heats Up as Volatility and Demand SurgeAllaire said USDC will provide greater transparency, and will likely disclose partner banks when the coin is issued.Circle hasn’t decided whether it will charge fees for traders using USDC, as Tether does to send its tokens to a bank account, as the main goal is to boost USDC use, co-founder Sean Neville said at a press event Monday.The fintech company, which hasn’t disclosed financial results, will probably generate greater revenue in 2018 than last year, even as cryptocurrency trading volume has declined, thanks to the new businesses its launched, Allaire said.“Circle was meaningfully profitable last year, and we continue to see high level of revenue growth,” he said. “Revenue will be higher this year.”

2018-05-15T12:00:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/coinbase-goes-after-wall-street-with-new-cryptocurrency-tools
Coinbase Inc. became the best-known cryptocurrency exchange in the U.S. by bringing Bitcoin to the masses. Now it’s looking to crack Wall Street.The San Francisco-based company is developing several tools to lure institutional investors onto its platform. They include custodial services where investors can store large amounts of digital currencies, as well as enhanced trading capabilities, such as risk management and margin trading, which allows customers to use borrowed money.While some of the products will be available to everyone, most will focus on institutional clients. One such service, called Coinbase Prime, will offer lending, margin financing and over-the-counter trading.The custody question -- how to securely hold digital coins in an era of rampant hacking -- has bedeviled money managers ever since cryptocurrencies emerged as an asset class. Coinbase began outlining efforts to provide a solution in November. Coinbase now tells Bloomberg it’s forging a partnership with Electronic Transaction Clearing Inc., a so-called qualified custodian for securities designated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.The regulator requires large investment advisers to keep customer assets at qualified custodians to protect clients from theft or losses. Banks and broker dealers are common examples of such safe houses for securities. However, authorities haven’t offered clear rules around what it means to have custody of crypto-assets.Coinbase’s new partner, Electronic Transaction Clearing, settled with the SEC in March over an alleged violation of customer-protection requirements and was fined $80,000. The agency accused ETC of improperly parking some securities belonging to customers at a clearing firm in late 2015. The firm didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.While Coinbase has said it doesn’t consider tokens on its exchanges to be securities, the regulatory view on that is hazy. The lack of clarity from financial watchdogs could explain why Coinbase hasn’t attracted big names to its custody product. The company said it’s holding more than $20 billion in digital assets, and custodial services will be available to investors with at least $10 million in deposits.Just three years ago, Coinbase was working out of a one-bedroom apartment, and the startup struggled to keep up with the surge in cryptocurrency interest last year. Problems have persisted. Some 1,500 complaints have been filed by customers on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s website since the start of 2018 over slow trading times, delays in processing transactions, high fees and other issues.Coinbase now has more than $200 million in funding from backers such as Andreessen Horowitz and the New York Stock Exchange. Coinbase recognizes it’ll need to prove the service is reliable if it hopes to win over hedge funds or Wall Street’s elite, said Adam White, vice president of Coinbase Institutional, a division setup to oversee the Wall Street business.“We realized there is a very different set of expectations between institutions and individuals,” he said. “We just get one shot, one first impression, and we need to make sure it’s a good one.”

2018-05-17T21:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-17/crypto-s-biggest-hacking-victim-plots-a-comeback-in-u-s-japan
Less than four months after losing an unprecedented $500 million of virtual coins to hackers, Japanese cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck is plotting its comeback.Under new leadership after a fire sale to brokerage Monex Inc., Coincheck has been spending heavily to improve security and restore confidence among clients who withdrew at least $540 million in the wake of the hack. In an interview, Monex Chief Executive Officer Oki Matsumoto said he expects the exchange to secure an official license in Japan next month. He’s also planning to bring Coincheck’s platform to America.Oki MatsumotoMatsumoto, who declined to specify a timeline for the U.S. expansion, has a lot riding on his crypto bet: Monex shares have surged 98 percent since news of the Coincheck takeover emerged last month, the biggest gain in Japan’s benchmark Topix Index. His plans for America may strike some as odd given that the country is typically seen as less friendly toward virtual currencies than Japan, but Matsumoto predicts that may be about to change.“Japan may seem like it’s one step ahead in crypto, but in terms of deciding what’s a security or a token and attracting institutional investors, the U.S. and Europe are moving ahead,” he said in an interview from his 25th floor office in central Tokyo.A highly anticipated decision by U.S. authorities on whether to classify coins such as Ether and Ripple as securities, commodities, or something else will create the regulatory clarity necessary to attract more investors to cryptocurrencies, even if the move leads to more stringent oversight and a short-term selloff, according to Matsumoto.Read more: U.S. Must Move Quickly on Ether Status, CFTC’s Quintenz SaysThe former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner sees a favorable crypto environment forming in the West, including lower taxes and growing interest from institutional money managers. He pointed to France’s decision, reported by Le Monde last month, to lower the capital gains tax rate by more than half to 19 percent. That compares with a 55 percent levy in Japan.“At that level, it’s hard to even think of crypto as something you’d put in your portfolio,” Matsumoto said of Japan’s tax. “That means it’ll just remain a plaything for speculators.”While Japan legalized crypto exchanges last year, the country has yet to begin formal discussions on amending its securities law to allow crypto-linked products such as futures and exchange-traded funds. The government has no immediate plans to cut the tax rate, Takuya Hirai, a member of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, told Bloomberg in late January.America’s regulators will likely have the biggest influence over what role cryptocurrencies play in society and the economy, Matsumoto said.“What the U.S. decides will have a huge impact on Japan,” he added.The Coincheck purchase has thrown Matsumoto back into the spotlight in Japan. He first came to prominence in the late 1990s after leaving Goldman to start Monex, one of Japan’s first online brokerages. Riding the euphoria of the dot-com bubble, Matsumoto promised to revolutionize Japan’s financial industry with online trading. That didn’t quite come to pass, but Monex quietly grew into a profitable business with a market value of about $1 billion.Matusmoto discovered Bitcoin in 2013 and opened a personal trading account at Coincheck two years later. He was also introduced to the exchange’s co-founder Koichiro Wada, who helped Matsumoto set up Bitcoin payments at one of his personal businesses, a steak restaurant.Oki Matsumoto, left, and Koichiro Wada at a news conference on April 6.That meeting proved fruitful three years later, when Wada sought help after Coincheck was hacked. In March, after some intense negotiations, the two sides arrived at a $34 million price tag for the exchange and agreed to split profits for the next three fiscal years. Coincheck, which has reimbursed users affected by the hack, last month reported a $490 million operating profit for the year ended March, more than six times Monex’s earnings in the same period.Read more about the Coincheck hack here.It’s far from clear whether Coincheck will ever return to that level of profitability. Turnover on the exchange in April was about 95 percent lower than in December -- Coincheck’s busiest-ever month -- after the hack spooked clients and cryptocurrency prices tumbled, according to data compiled by jpbitcoin.com and Bloomberg.Matsumoto is undaunted.“We can broaden our customer base at Coincheck,” he said. “In the end, we should and we can replicate the profitability they achieved before.”

2018-05-18T04:37:19.734Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-18/crypto-wealth-sinks-52-billion-in-week-of-lambos-yachts-snoop
So much for the Blockchain Week bounce.With thousands of cryptocurrency diehards swarming into Manhattan for this week’s Consensus 2018 conference and other industry related events, the prediction from Bitcoin bulls like Tom Lee of Fundstrat Global Advisors was that the hype-filled gathering would trigger a market rally.Alas, not even a trio of (rented) Lamborghinis, a 1,000-person yacht party and a performance by 46-year-old rapper Snoop Dogg could prevent the value of virtual currencies tracked by Coinmarketcap.com from sinking by $45 billion since May 11. Bitcoin, the most popular of the bunch, dropped 3.7 percent this week to $8,117.43 even as Arthur Hayes -- the crypto exchange executive whose firm rented the Lamborghinis -- predicted a surge to $50,000 by year-end.“While there was not a Consensus bump, our conviction on cryptocurrencies strengthened during the conference,” Lee wrote in a note Friday. He cited over exuberance about the prospects for rising institutional demand and lingering concerns about the regulatory framework for depressing prices.This week’s slump is far from extreme by crypto standards, but the market’s resistance to Blockchain Week’s ballyhoo highlights one of the arguments often used by virtual currency pessimists -- that most people who are willing to buy the coins have already piled in.While bulls point to a vast pool of pent-up demand from professional money managers, it’s far from clear that regulations in the U.S. and elsewhere will evolve in ways that attract institutional investors. Many Wall Street pros have dismissed the market as a speculative bubble, while Warren Buffett has likened Bitcoin to “rat poison squared.”This week’s losses may have been the result of unmet expectations surrounding Consensus 2018, said Sunny Lu, the chief executive officer of blockchain-based logistics company VeChain Tech and one of the conference speakers.“The quality of projects and speakers were not really as good as expected,” Lu said. “I guess people just got disappointed.”

2018-05-15T08:49:43.978Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/bitcoin-mining-rig-maker-canaan-said-to-file-for-1-billion-ipo
Canaan Creative, the world’s second-biggest maker of Bitcoin mining hardware, submitted an application for an initial public offering that could raise about $1 billion, people with knowledge of the matter said.The Chinese company aims to start trading in Hong Kong as soon as July, said one of the people, asking not to be identified because the size and timing of the IPO haven’t been announced publicly. The group had revenue of 1.3 billion yuan ($203.8 million) in 2017 while profit surged sixfold to 361 million yuan, the company’s Cayman Islands-based parent, Canaan Inc., said in a filing Tuesday.It would be the first Hong Kong IPO from the cryptocurrency industry. Canaan has about 15 percent of the global market for Bitcoin mining chips and computer equipment, trailing Chinese rival Bitmain, according to a February report from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.Canaan, founded in 2013, sells computer equipment under the “Avalon” brand with fast, customized chips that win digital coins by solving complex math problems. The company’s hardware often ends up in remote locales housing large mining pools that depend on cheap electricity, co-Chairman Jianping Kong said in an April interview.Canaan Creative co-Chairman Jianping Kong, right, with founder and CEO N.G. Zhang in April.The company also announced last year it was developing dedicated chips for use in artificial intelligence applications.No final decisions have been made, and details of the offering could change, the people said. Kong declined to comment on details of the IPO preparations.Canaan was preparing last year to list on China’s National Equities Exchange and Quotations, an over-the-counter market known as the New Third Board, before opting to pursue a Hong Kong IPO.In 2016, electrical equipment manufacturer Shandong Luyitong Intelligent Electric Plc sought to acquire Canaan, according to filings at the time. “Great uncertainties” surrounding China’s securities environment and regulatory policies torpedoed the deal, Shandong Luyitong said in a statement at the time.In Tuesday’s filing, Canaan said its software enterprise unit, Hangzhou Canaan, receives preferential tax treatment and paid no income tax in 2016 and 2017, and will pay a preferential rate of 12.5 percent from 2018 to 2020.The ASIC-based blockchain hardware market in China grew to 7.3 billion yuan in 2017 from 50 million yuan in 2013, the company said, and consultant Frost & Sullivan forecasts that it will reach 28.6 billion yuan by 2020.

2018-05-13T13:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-13/snoop-dogg-dorsey-bring-crypto-to-masses-during-blockchain-week
Who says the hype around Bitcoin is over?Even with the world’s best known virtual currency down more than 50 percent from its record high, thousands of advocates are expected to descend upon New York in what’s been dubbed Blockchain Week. Named after the decentralized computer ledger technology that’s been pitched as the solution to everything from inefficient financial transactions to global poverty, the affair represents a push to bring more blockchain jobs to the world’s financial capital.More than 8,000 people are expected to crowd into a Midtown Manhattan hotel for Consensus, the biggest of about two dozen events and conferences between May 10 and May 19. During the three-day blockchain bonanza, which kicks off Monday, attendees can watch young tech whizzes and old-world financiers debate the future of digital payments, and see startups pitch their plans to anyone who will listen. The conference shouldn’t be confused with ConsenSys, the Brooklyn-based blockchain startup founded by Ethereum guru Joseph Lubin, who sponsored his own event.Consensus, hosted by media and research company CoinDesk Inc., will feature hundreds of speakers, including Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard and FedEx Corp. CEO Frederick Smith. Then there are the afterparties, including a bash hosted by payment firm Ripple that will be headlined by rapper Snoop Dogg at a secret location in Manhattan’s Meatpacking District.Consensus attendance has surged more than 1,000 percent since 2015Source: CoinDeskThe May 10 Fluidity Summit, one of the first events during Blockchain Week, offered a peek at what’s to come. A pink-haired woman in a dress suit sat across from a scruffy-bearded man in a jean jacket while crypto heavyweight Mike Novogratz told tales of meeting with Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives about the future of crypto trading. One Wall Street worker lamented the monotony of investment banking, and said she came to the sold-out event in search of a job in crypto.For years, outsiders have dubbed members of the crypto community as libertarian oddballs trying to take down the global financial system. This stereotype rings less true in 2018, when traditional institutions including Goldman Sachs have climbed onboard, highlighting the nascent industry’s slow-but-sure move into the mainstream.Consensus is expected to draw more than twice as many people as last year, when one Bitcoin would have cost you about $2,500. Now the top digital token is worth almost four times as much, though that still pales in comparison to the $20,000 price tag it flirted with late last year. The conference could cause Bitcoin to rally, Thomas Lee, head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, predicted last week.Read more: A Bitcoin conference rented a huge strip club. Regret ensuedRegulation will undoubtedly be an overarching theme, as financial watchdogs around the world have recently doubled down their scrutiny on digital currencies. Representatives of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission will be speaking.Blockchain Week was launched in partnership with the New York City Economic Development Corporation in an effort to showcase the city as an up-and-coming center for blockchain companies. There will be a job fair on May 16.Some blockchain fanatics may be opting out of Consensus because they can’t afford it. Tickets currently range from $1,499 to $2,999. Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin tweeted last month that he’s boycotting the conference for a number of reasons, including the hefty price tag.“The conference costs $2-3k to attend,” Buterin said. “I refuse to personally contribute to that level of rent seeking.”— With assistance by Jennifer Surane

2018-05-17T16:00:13.480Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-05-17/china-s-crypto-chips-king-sets-his-sights-on-ai
Even by the standards of Bitcoin, things are crazy in China. As the boom in cryptocurrencies has become the biggest speculative bubble in recorded history, a single company in Beijing’s Haidian District has been selling the chips that generate as much as 80 percent of the world’s cryptocoins. “We feel lucky,” says Jihan Wu, the co-chief executive of Bitmain Technologies Ltd., which was more or less unknown two years ago and, according to Wu, booked revenue of $3.5 billion in 2017. Cryptocurrency networks run on number-crunching, electricity-hogging “mining” technology, and to play in that game with any seriousness, you pretty much need Bitmain’s chips. And because it’s China, the whole thing could fall apart at any minute.Last year the government cracked down on cryptocurrency trading and banned initial coin offerings. This year it’s sent signals that it could seriously restrict mining. So even though Bitmain has succeeded far beyond Wu’s expectations, he’s already planning for the company’s next act: artificial intelligence. “As a China company,” says the taciturn 32-year-old, “we have to be prepared.”During a rare series of interviews with Bloomberg Businessweek at Bitmain’s headquarters, Wu and his executives say AI chips are a natural adjacency for their privately held, extremely secretive company. “Artificial intelligence requires lots of computations,” says Wu. That makes it like Bitcoin mining, which is best done by a custom chip known as an application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC.On the strength of such chips, Bitmain has quietly become a global power. A February report by Bernstein Research estimated that the company might be generating profits of more than $3 billion per year, about the same as its much larger rival, Nvidia Corp. The report also suggested that Bitmain is probably one of the five biggest customers of the most advanced fabrication process offered by the Taiwanese chip giant Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which also counts among its clients Apple Inc. and Qualcomm Technologies Inc. Wu declined to comment on Bitmain’s profits, but it seems a safe bet that, given the company’s revenue figure, things aren’t quite as rosy as Bernstein’s estimate. TSMC declined to comment.In October, Bitmain began selling early prototypes of its Sophon BM1680. The ASIC chip, which is sold as part of a $600 accelerator card that you attach to a computer, is designed expressly to speed up machine learning. Although it doesn’t do everything that high-end graphics cards made by the likes of Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. do, it’s more powerful for some kinds of deep learning, and much cheaper. “We are just trying to do something that they cannot take care of well enough,” says Wu, who estimates that as much as 40 percent of Bitmain’s revenue will come from AI chips within five years.He’s got a ways to go. Bitmain’s big AI chip, Sophon—named after the tiny supercomputer in the wildly popular Chinese sci-fi novel The Three-Body Problem—came out five months behind Google’s leading design, the Tensor Processing Unit. But while Google is the company to beat in all things AI, its chips are available only to customers of its cloud services, which are banned in China. That gives Wu a strong position at home.If Bitmain’s recent history is any guide, the company may not remain an AI underdog for long. In 2011, Wu, a video game geek who favors white T-shirts, light jeans, and sneakers, stumbled into the world of crypto while working as an investment analyst in Beijing. He quickly became obsessed, devouring everything he could about cryptography and monetary history. He translated into Chinese the famous Bitcoin white paper, originally written in English by the pseudonymous author Satoshi Nakamoto, and became a fixture on online cryptocurrency forums.In 2013, Wu met up with entrepreneur Micree Zhan for dinner at a local restaurant. Zhan, a chip designer by training, had pitched him years earlier on an investment in his startup, which was focused on TV set-top boxes. They spent two hours discussing the ins and outs of Bitcoin, and Wu proposed starting a chip company. Zhan, whose startup had been struggling, listened intently. The next morning, he spent two hours learning more about cryptocurrencies on Wikipedia. He called Wu the next day and said he was in. They sold their first chip later that year.It was, Wu now says, one of two Bitcoin businesses that seemed plausible. The other was a cryptocurrency exchange, a model that came with far more legal risks. “The only thing that is good to do is Bitcoin mining,” he says. “Because it is 100 percent sure it is legal.”In the early days, when Bitcoin and its ilk were mainly the province of math geeks and dorm room libertarians, hobbyists could mine Bitcoin using software that ran on a laptop. But as interest grew, miners were forced to beef up their rigs if they wanted to keep solving puzzles and earning coins faster than the next miner. That set off a frantic technological arms race, where traditional CPUs were replaced with high-end graphics chips, or GPUs.By the end of 2013, when the price of Bitcoin hit $1,000 for the first time—it topped $19,000 last year before tumbling back into the $8,000 range—miners began experimenting with ASICs, including Bitmain’s offering. The chips, which had the necessary algorithms coded directly onto the silicon, were faster and used less electricity than GPUs.Today, Bitmain Antminers are one-trick, server-size boxes that sell for a few hundred to a few thousand dollars. Instead of the various parts that make up a traditional PC, they’re filled with dozens or hundreds of identical high-powered chips. Customers are mostly large mining operators in places with cheap electricity. Rural China, with an excess of cheap coal power, is the most popular location by far.Bitmain’s success has made it a whipping boy for purists who cherish Bitcoin as a way to subvert any kind of centralized authority. Decisions about the future of the currency are made democratically, with voting power based on the percentage of transactions one controls. This meant Bitmain had a lot of influence when it began arguing that Bitcoin should be tweaked to make it easier to use to buy and sell things, which you might think a no-brainer. Not in Cryptoland, where no disagreement is too small to go full-nuclear over. During one exchange in 2016, the normally restrained Wu tweeted at a critic, “F--- your mother.” Eventually, Bitcoin split into two currencies: an original flavor and a new Bitmain-backed currency called Bitcoin Cash. The newer model has slightly more centralized control and much lower transaction fees.“That is an old story,” Wu says of the dispute. “The cryptocurrency world is becoming more diversified.” With that in mind, he’s selling mining rigs customized for more than a dozen different coins, and he plans to add more.Controversy, of course, has ensued. In April, Bitmain released an $800 miner for Ethereum, another cryptocurrency that had been seen as resistant to ASICs and thus harder for powerful companies such as Bitmain to dominate. Even so, the news set off a frenzy, with stock prices of graphics-chip makers falling. It also provoked the usual high-intensity debate among Ethereum developers over whether the currency should once again be “forked”—that is, split off into a new version that would render Bitmain’s miners useless.Ethereum developers have since seemed to make peace with Bitmain’s entrance into the market, and Wu shrugs off criticisms about his company’s power because other chipmakers will inevitably enter the market, too. “If it’s not us, it might be Intel, it might be Nvidia, it might be AMD,” he says.For now, Bitmain is on the offensive. It’s building new mines in the U.S. and focusing its efforts in China on chip development. With AI, Bitmain is targeting an industry that, unlike Bitcoin, has the full backing of Beijing. Last July the central government announced plans to transform China into the leading AI player by 2030, by investing in research and supporting related businesses. If that support materializes, Bitmain’s uncertain position, and any fear of a regulatory crackdown, will be a distant memory. —With Tom Mackenzie 

2018-05-17T15:04:30.198Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-17/genesis-global-trading-granted-bitlicense-in-new-york-state
Genesis Global Trading, a cryptocurrency broker that specializes in large trades with institutional investors, gained approval to operate in New York under the state’s Department of Financial Services’ BitLicense program.The regulatory approval is the first for a New York-based trading firm, Genesis said in a statement Thursday. The BitLicense will allow Genesis to facilitate the trading of Bitcoin, Ether, Ethereum Classic, Bitcoin Cash, XRP, Litecoin and Zcash. Genesis offers private over-the-counter trading to its customers.“Although we have operated under a safe harbor provision in recent years, today’s decision is an important step forward and reaffirms the robust compliance measures we have enacted as an established trading partner," Michael Moro, chief executive officer of Genesis, said in the statement. Genesis is also a broker-dealer registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Finra.QuickTake: U.S. Crypto Regulatory Fight Has Everything But RulesThe BitLicense was created by New York’s financial-services department in 2015 as a special permit applied to virtual currency exchanges. It has drawn criticism from crypto companies for being too burdensome.

2018-05-17T18:43:18.471Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-17/crypto-bros-lambo-obsession-morphs-into-aspirational-parody
Lamborghinis are typically thought of as the flashy trophies reserved for diamond-clad rappers or secret agents in the movies (or even popes). Until now.A newer group, Bitcoin investors, made the stereotype their own during Blockchain Week in New York. Joke or not, “Lambo” has become the ultimate status symbol of rags-to-riches crypto traders with something to prove.The luxury cars could be heard roaring through the streets of Midtown Manhattan on Monday, making their way to the Consensus blockchain conference, where they sat parked outside the Hilton for all to ogle at. The showing made a statement: Crypto buyers are building significant wealth, just like the traditional financial institutions they set out to dismantle.Lamborghini during Blockchain Week.But unlike some Wall Street executives, no one at the event actually owned the Lamborghinis on display; crypto exchange BitMex had rented them out for the day, a reminder that the nascent industry is still just a blip in the overall world economy.“I personally do believe that this is connected to the profile of the young generation that are invested in these high-risk investments,” said Automobili Lamborghini SpA Chief Executive Officer Stefano Domenicali in a May 14 CNBC interview. “I see the parallel between young people that are really willing to become very rich with a very high-risk investment with the fact that our customers are very young.”The American trope of pulling oneself up by one’s bootstraps may help make sense of the crypto community’s obsession with exotic cars. Tai Lopez, a YouTuber with 1.2 million subscribers who makes how-to videos about wealth and success, explains it well:“The real reason I keep this Lambo here is that it’s a reminder -- a reminder that dreams are still possible,” said Lopez, standing proudly in front of his black Lamborghini, in a post from 2015. “It wasn’t that long ago that I was in a little town across the country, sleeping on a couch in a mobile home with only $47 in my bank account.”Lamborghinis weren’t the only luxury making a splash during Blockchain Week. Ethereum co-founder Anthony Di Iorio’s company Decentral threw a party Wednesday for about 1,000 people on a rented yacht. Posts on social media show party goers dancing to electronic music, watching inspirational videos about crypto on screens around the dance floor and gawking at two Aston Martins parked by the boat.One of the cars had an Ethereum logo splashed across its door, while the other had Bitcoin Bs on the wheels. As the yacht was docking back in Manhattan around midnight, two of the attendees’ wristbands, which had been flashing blue all night, started flashing a different color from the rest, said Trevor Koverko, Polymath Inc.’s chief executive officer, who was at the party. That marked the winners of the roughly $160,000 cars.Some digital-currency fans have even made websites that calculate how many more Bitcoins you would need to buy a Lamborghini. The phrase “When Lambo?” appears frequently in memes, tweets and Reddit posts from users wondering when their crypto holdings will propel them to lives of luxury. Investors can also buy “Lambocoins,” a parody token whose lead developer is a cat with actor Nicolas Cage’s face.“This is why they hate us,” one Bitcoiner tweeted in response to a photo of the Lambos outside of Consensus on Monday.Another enthusiast shot back: “‘People will think they’re crazy’ But the crazy ones change the world.”

2018-05-17T09:30:28.853Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-17/maybe-blockchain-isn-t-as-cool-as-it-thinks-it-is
Pop quiz: Which of Alphabet Inc., Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Facebook Inc. and Netflix Inc. has shouted most to investors about Bitcoin or blockchain?The answer is... none of the above. Bloomberg's database of regulatory filings shows no mention of either blockchain or Bitcoin in these companies’ disclosures since 2008. The closest was Netflix CFO David Wells, who said on an earnings call last year that a "borderless currency" within the next decade might be nice.This apparent silence — and bear in mind regulatory filings don't cover social media or interviews — is telling. This is a successful billionaire class which embodies mottos like "move fast and break things" or "step by step, ferociously."The Winklevoss twins championed Bitcoin, but Mark Zuckerberg never did. Bill Gates has been as dismissive about Bitcoin as Warren Buffett. You still can't do your shopping on Amazon using digital currencies. Given the volatility of cryptocurrencies, the regulatory risks involved, and deflating demand, it's little surprise that the biggest steps taken by the tech giants have been banning ads for Bitcoin clones.The Bitcoin rollercoaster hit the brakes in January,  but companies are still dabbling in blockchainSource: BloombergBut why has there not been more excitement about speculation-free, company-friendly blockchains, which tout distributed ledgers as efficient and secure?Big banks like HSBC Holdings Plc have been eager to promote it as a more efficient way to move secure data around without hurting its underlying business. Yet almost a decade after Bitcoin's creation, Zuckerberg only recently pledged to study encryption and virtual currencies; he has now reportedly put a dozen people on the case.Venerable companies from finance and I.T. dominate the Top 10 of blockchain patent holdersSource: EnvisionIPThe dinosaurs on Wall Street have been more aggressive. Financial firms have the biggest share of blockchain patents, according to law firm EnvisionIP, more than tech firms. Even then, the latter group is dominated by old-school brands like IBM.Are tech firms simply reluctant to embrace blockchain because they see it as an existential threat? True believers argue that the technology is anathema to the powerful Silicon Valley elite, who through sheer size and market share have become incumbents themselves — like banks.Take Facebook: It's a centralized, entrenched middle-man that sells $40 billion of ads annually thanks to user data surrendered for free. Is it any wonder that Zuckerberg might drag his feet in tinkering with this?Blockchain startups are already being pitched that target the economics of his business: French think tank Generation Libre is proposing to help people control, authenticate and sell their data to platforms for a transparent price via a blockchain. If that took off, one could (just) imagine Facebook losing users and being forced to reinvent itself.But maybe the tech elite knows something we don't. If big banks have survived the past decade of fintech and crypto-disruption, and dabbled with blockchain experiments to reap the benefit of a buzzword, then maybe the wealthy and entrenched forces of Silicon Valley can do likewise without needing to panic.The recent proliferation of Initial Coin Offerings was supposed to disrupt the venture capital funding model, but it seems to have been co-opted: Witness Whatsapp rival Telegram ditching its public ICO plan after raising $1.7 billion privately.Facebook isn’t going to torpedo its business model for the fun of it, and it's unlikely to view rival start-ups as a threat until users sign off en masse and seize control of their data — which hasn't happened.Sure, big tech companies and big banks probably suffer from the innovator’s dilemma, and lean towards conservatism. But the promised crypto-revolution hasn't materialized either.Zuckerberg's dalliance with decentralization doesn't have to bring a zeitgeist with it. It could just mean that blockchain isn't as cool as it thinks it is.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Lionel Laurent at llaurent2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Edward Evans at eevans3@bloomberg.net

2018-05-18T18:00:04.999Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-18/silicon-valley-s-subscription-free-for-all
This post originally appeared in   Money Stuff.We talked last month about the weirdly common Silicon Valley business model of “rapidly growing a business by selling its products below cost, subsidized by huge venture-capital investments, in the hopes of one day flipping to profitability once you’ve achieved scale.” One way to think about that model is as a cold-blooded rational economic calculation: The financial benefits of entrenching your company into everyone’s digital lives are so big that losing even billions of dollars to get there can be worth it.But there are other ways to think about it, and they are much more fun. For instance, I like to think of it as a sort of venture-capitalist false consciousness. An important story of the modern technology industry is its contribution to inequality, as entrepreneurs and venture capitalists become fabulously wealthy with scalable digital products that do not create lots of middle-class jobs to match the wealth they build for their tiny elite class of owners. In the limit, robots will do all the work, and the people who invent and own the robots will have all the wealth, and everyone else will … what? Starve? Revolt? Maybe they will live off subsidies thrown off by venture capitalists who want to achieve scale. I wrote:It is pleasing to imagine that the VCs might give away their products because they are (1) rapacious growth-hungry capitalists and (2) confused. “Please give me free food so that you can grow your daily active user base,” you’d say to the robot-farm monopoly, and its owners would reply “yes, scale, we must scale, here is your food,” and you’d be pleased to have put one over on capitalism.The fun view of the venture-capital-subsidized perpetual-loss-leading user-growth-at-any-cost economy is that it represents socialism as the transcendent end state of capitalism, a capitalism that is so refined that it consists of just giving people free stuff in exchange only for their willingness to take it. Kevin Roose at the New York Times wrote about this model the other day, with the headline “The Entire Economy Is MoviePass Now,” referencing MoviePass’s particularly silly approach in which you can see unlimited movies for less than the price of one movie ticket, with MoviePass eating the difference. (Though MoviePass is part of a public company, so it is not venture money.) He wrote:I’ve got a great idea for a start-up. Want to hear the pitch?It’s called the 75 Cent Dollar Store. We’re going to sell dollar bills for 75 cents — no service charges, no hidden fees, just crisp $1 bills for the price of three quarters. It’ll be huge.Look he hasn’t gotten funding yet but give him time.I will do him one better though. My startup will be an online subscription service in which we mail people checks, or Venmo them money maybe, or ugh send them Bitcoins who cares. They don’t have to give us quarters or anything. It’s just free; all they have to do is sign up. I expect that my monthly-active-user growth rate will be more than sufficient to support a $50 billion valuation; who’s in?  I call it the Silicon Valley Universal Basic Income Project.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks!This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-14T15:00:16.608Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/bitcoin-climbs-from-three-week-low-as-lambos-take-manhattan
The crypto bros have taken over Midtown Manhattan.Lamborghinis, the flashy cars that symbolize conspicuous consumption among Bitcoin true-believers, roared through the streets near the Hilton Midtown, site of the Consensus 2018 conference. Whether actual Bitcoin millionaires or hired marketeers, the drivers added to the cacophony and stoked hype for what the city’s calling Blockchain Week.The price of the digital token also got a boost. Bitcoin jumped as much as 3.95 percent to $8,713 in early trading, rebounding from a more than three-week low reached earlier Monday.Consensus is expected to draw more 8,500, or twice as many people as last year, when one Bitcoin would have cost you about $2,500. Now the top digital token is worth almost four times as much, though that still pales in comparison to the $20,000 price tag it flirted with late last year. The conference could cause Bitcoin to rally, Thomas Lee, head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, predicted last week.Still two blocks away and the lambos can be seen/heard revving all through Midtown pic.twitter.com/DPuZPV8kkIConsensus, hosted by media and research company CoinDesk Inc., has already featured Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard and FedEx Corp. CEO Frederick Smith, who said blockchain technology “could be the next big disruption.”Bullard did throw some cold water on the festivities, noting that “cryptocurrencies are creating drift toward a non-uniform currency in the U.S., a state of affairs that has existed historically but was disliked and eventually replaced.”For more on bitcoin, check out the Decrypted  podcast:— With assistance by Steve Matthews

2018-05-17T08:00:19.348Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-05-17/i-tried-to-get-an-ai-to-write-this-story-paul-ford
What a time for artificial intelligence! Google announced a new AI-powered set of products and services at its I/O conference for developers, including one called Duplex that makes phone calls for you and sounds just like a real person, which freaked everyone right out. The Trump administration held some sort of AI summit with representatives from Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft, Nvidia, and buttermaker Land O’Lakes, presumably because the White House has so much churn. Add to this the public reveal that the musician Grimes and Elon Musk are dating, after the two shared a joke about AI.And yet when people ask what the software company I run is doing with machine learning, I say, calmly, “Nothing.” Because at some level there’s just nothing to do.The hotness of the moment is machine learning, a subfield of AI. In machine learning you take regular old data—pictures, emails, songs—and run it all through some specialized software. That software builds up a “model.” Since the model encodes what came before, it’s predictive—you can feed the model incomplete data and it will suggest ways to complete it. A trivial example: Anyone, including you and I, can feed the alphabet to a “recurrent neural network,” or RNN. That makes a model of the alphabet. Now you execute that model (maybe by running a script) and give it the letters “ABC.” If your specially trained neural network is having a good day, it’ll say “D.”Go up a level: Feed your neural network a million pictures with captions, then feed it a picture without a caption and ask it to fill in the missing caption. Feed it countless emails with replies, then show it one without a reply and ask it what to say.Since we use software all the time, we create an unbelievable amount of data. You can’t hire enough humans to weed through it, so we turn to computers, which lack discretion but make up for it in vigor. The biggest data holders—Google, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, Amazon, financial companies, and, sure, Big Butter—are into AI for lots of reasons. But most important is that they’ve got all that data and not enough programmers to make sense of it. Machine learning is an enormous shortcut, a path to new products and big savings.“Watching a machine-learning model train itself is like watching a movie montage”So out of curiosity and a deeply optimistic laziness, I set out to learn enough about machine learning that I could feed a neural network everything I’ve ever written and have it write an article, or even just a paragraph, that sounded like me. The first wall I hit is that, even for a nerd who’s used to befuddlement, machine learning is opaque. Reading up on it means relearning many words, absorbing acronyms such as RNN or LSTM (long short-term memory). People talk about the temperature parameter and cooling functions and simulated annealing. I am a veteran of jargon, and trust me, this is one big epistemological hootenanny.Even worse, when you look under the rock at all the machine learning, you see a horrible nest of mathematics: Squiggling brackets and functions and matrices scatter. Software FAQs, PDFs, Medium posts all spiral into equations. Do I need to understand the difference between a sigmoid function and tanh? Can’t I just turn a dial somewhere?It all reminds me of Linux and the web in the 1990s: a sense of wonderful possibility if you could just scale the wall of jargon. And of course it’s worth learning, because it works.It works because what machine learning does is write software for you. You feed data to a program and it spits out a new program for classifying data. The big software people often don’t even know what’s happening inside the model. This should give us pause, but asking Silicon Valley to pause for reflection is like asking a puppy to drop its squeaky toy.Here’s more good news: Machine learning is amazingly slow. We’re so used to computers being ridiculously fast, doing thousands of things at once—showing you a movie and connecting to dozens of Wikipedia pages while you chat in one window, write in a word processor, and tweet all the while (admittedly I might have a problem). But when I tried to feed a machine-learning toolkit all my writing in the hope of making the computer write some paragraphs for me, my laptop just shook its head. It was going to take at least a night, maybe days, to make a model of my prose. At least for now, it’s faster for me to write the paragraphs myself.But I’d already read tutorials and didn’t want to give up. I’d downloaded and installed TensorFlow, a large machine-learning programming environment produced by Google and released as open source software. Fishing around, I decided to download my Google calendar and feed all my meetings to TensorFlow to see if it could generate new, realistic-sounding meetings. Just what the world needs: a meeting generator.Unfortunately, my meetings are an enormous pile of events with names like “Staffing,” “Pipeline,” “John x Paul,” and “Office happy hour.” I ran a script once to load the data, then ran another script to spit out calendar invites. However, on that trial run I set the wrong “beam” (God only knows what that is) and the RNN just produced the word “pipeline” over and over again. To which I must say, fair. Sales = my life.“I went back to my laptop and applied a skill that’s fundamental to programming: cheating”The thing is, that might look like failure. But I’d fed my machine learner a few thousand lines of text (tiny by machine learning standards), and it had learned one word. I was almost as proud as when I thought my infant son said “cat.” I was back to the seminal 1950 paper by Alan Turing in which he proposed simulating a child via computer. “Presumably the child brain is something like a notebook as one buys it from the stationer’s,” he wrote. “Rather little mechanism, and lots of blank sheets.”Change the settings, try again. After 50 “epochs” (when the program reads in all of your data one time, that’s an epoch—training a network requires beaucoup epochs) I had it generating meetings with titles like “BOOK,” “Sanananing broces,” and “Talking Upgepteeelrent,” even though I’ve never talked Upgepteeelrent with anyone. After a hundred epochs, I had meetings like “Broam Shappery” and “DONKER STAR E5K.”Many hours passed. I was so engrossed in simulating meetings that I missed a real sales pipeline meeting. So I went home, where I have a faster computer with a graphics processing unit, or GPU. GPUs have turned out to be the secret weapon of Bitcoin miners and machine learners. That’s because they’re good at carrying out massive numbers of calculations at the same time. A regular microprocessor is sort of a logic-powered sausage maker; you feed it meat (instructions) and it processes the meat and produces sausage (output) all day long. A GPU is like thousands of sausage grinders grinding at once. What kinds of problems can be decomposed into little tasks that can all run at once? Calculating the lighting in a 3D scene. Mining Bitcoins. And machine learning. These things can be sped up dozens, even hundreds of times.Sadly, even though I followed the instructions, I couldn’t get Linux to recognize my graphics card, which after 20 years of using Linux feels more like a familiar feature than a bug. Of course, all would not be lost: I could jump online and rent a TPU, or Tensor Processing Unit, from Google (a tensor is a math thing where things connect to other things) using its cloud services. Microsoft Corp. has cloud machine learning for $50 a month for “100 Managed Models,” and Amazon.com Inc. has “Elastic GPUs” for 5¢ an hour. Google will also rent you a computer for about that. But if you want to rent a Google TPU and blast through a ton of machine learning tasks, it’ll cost $6.50 an hour, billed by the second. Is it worth 130 times more money to use a TPU to mess with tensors? If you’re looking at tons of satellite imagery or MRIs—probably.I went back to my work laptop and applied a skill that’s fundamental to programming: cheating. I switched from “character”-based neural networks to training against “words”—and since my pet neural network was no longer learning the alphabet but merely looking at “tokens,” my meetings got much more plausible in a hurry.After 2,000 epochs, it got to some relatively good meetings: “Paul and Paul!,” “Sarony Hears,” and the dreaded “Check-in,” but it was still mostly producing stuff like “Sit (Contench: Proposal/Gina Mcconk.” I started to feel why everyone is so excited: There is always, always one more knob to turn, one other thing to tweak that could make the computer more thoughtful-seeming. Or, as then-Ph.D. student Andrej Karpathy wrote in a 2015 essay, The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Recurrent Neural Networks: “I’m training RNNs all the time and I’ve witnessed their power and robustness many times, and yet their magical outputs still find ways of amusing me.” He’s currently director of AI at Tesla Inc. His neural network must have been more than just amusing.Messing with machine learning scratches a nerd itch to understand the world and master it a little, too—to reduce reality to inputs and outputs, and remix it. I wanted to forget my family and my company and just fall backward into this world of cloud TPUs, feeding it ever more data and letting it create ever more surprising models that I would explore and filter. As you run the model, it keeps getting smarter. Watching a machine-learning model train itself is like watching a movie montage. At the end, a robotic Rocky runs up the stairs of the Philly art museum and raises his robot arms in the air. It’s too bad that Robot Rocky was trained on a data set of hockey films instead of boxing, but it’ll still be fascinating to watch him enter the ring and try to score a goal.“At least for now, computers need people as much as we need them”Finally, I just let ’er crank for 20,000 epochs and went home, but the results weren’t any better in the morning. Or worse. They included: “Knight Days,” “Happy Sales,” “Company and home catchup,” “Chit Planning personal bus. Pitch Lunch: Wendy no get,” and “Tyler chat Deck.” I don’t know what it says of my life that all these could be real invites.I’d tapped out the limit of what I could do without learning more. I’d learned that machine learning is very slow unless you use special equipment, and that my life, at least by the meetings I attend, is pretty boring. I accept both of those things. The reality is that my corpus wasn’t big enough; I need millions, billions of meetings to build a good predictive model. But imagine what I could do! I have no idea! Get me a whiteboard!I work in software, and machine learning is the big new thing, but I’m not worried, nor are we retooling our company. Machine learning is important, but it’s not ready for civilians (although check out lobe.ai to see how things might look in the future). As with all software, machine-learning tools still need people to come along to make them look good and teach them how to behave. At least for now, computers need people as much as we need them.Also, why bother? The amount of lock-in the big players have is ridiculous. They have the data, the software, and the engineers. Don’t want to give Google your money? You can jump onto Amazon’s SageMaker platform and get yourself a machine with 8 GPUs and 616 gigabytes of memory across all its processors for $24.48 an hour. Today, training models is slow; tomorrow, your dishwasher will be training a neural network on your dishes, the better to clean them.In the meantime, for the biggest tech companies, there’s almost unlimited upside. And for none more than Google, an online advertising company with a sideline in search. It didn’t set out to be an ad company, but it is, and its market value is around $750 billion, so it will have to accept that. It has a ton of data. And machine learning is really effective at productizing (a real word) big data.So if I’m Google, the absolute, most horrible, worst-case outcome is that I will be able to use what machine learning gives me and apply it to my enormous suite of advertising products and make them smarter and better and more useful, and do smarter and better search across the enormous swaths of culture where I charge a toll, which includes YouTube, all world geography, and (practically) the web itself. Plus, I can make it easier to use Android phones, which I also indirectly control.Simultaneously I, Google, will release TensorFlow, and that will bring a huge group of expensive-to-recruit engineers up to speed on the tools we use internally, creating in them a great desire to come and do machine learning at our massive scale, where they can have all the TPU hours they want. And that will add up to tens of billions of dollars over the years.But—still channeling the Google in my heart—in my wildest dreams I will open up entirely new product lines around machine vision, translation, automatic trading services, and generate many hundreds of billions of dollars in value, all before machine learning succumbs to the inevitable downward pressure and gets too cheap and easy.I mean, even if TPUs shrink and everyone in the world can do machine learning, I’ll have the data. The beautiful, expensive-to-acquire data. I will have turned all my maps into self-driving cars, all my conversations into phones that have conversations for you, all my emails into automated replies. And I will be providing the cloud infrastructure for a whole machine learning world—clawing back what’s rightfully mine from those mere booksellers at Amazon—because my tools will be the standard, and our data will be the biggest, and the applications the most immense. Some of it will be problematic. The cops can search for people who might become criminals, the credit agencies can predict people who will have bad credit, the homeland security offices of many nations can filter through their populations and make lists of questionable value. We will be the infrastructure for the whole thing.At the worst, I, Google, will merely succeed wildly. At the best, I will be the foundational technology for a bold new digital modernity in which the computer is deeply embedded in human life in ways we can only glimpse today.And what a good boy am I. 

2018-05-18T11:00:12.927Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-18/these-tech-revolutions-are-further-away-than-you-think
Bloomberg Businessweek’s Sooner Than You Think issue looks at a lot of AI technology that’s coming soon, but here are a few things in the broader tech world that are likely further off than the hype often suggests.Digital ledgers may yet end up being the solution for everything, but so far they’ve solved almost nothing. On its busiest day, the nine-year-old Bitcoin economy registered about 400,000 transactions. On an average day, Visa Inc. racks up 150 million. Most other blockchain applications are in even earlier stages—for now, many are just white papers. And it’s unclear whether the principle behind blockchain, which holds that distributed computing systems are inherently more trustworthy than those controlled by a central entity, even makes sense for most applications. The decentralized ledger is going to be far less helpful than Visa’s consumer support line when someone runs up a bunch of fraudulent charges on your account.Two years after the release of the first Oculus, HTC Vive, and Playstation VR headsets, virtual reality has struggled to attract the talented developers it needs to garner a mass audience, and vice versa. Now, true believers insist they always thought the bigger deal would be augmented reality, which overlays digital images on your real-world field of vision. Google and Apple are building developer tools for AR smartphone apps, and 2018 is supposed to see the unveiling of a long-awaited headset from Magic Leap Inc., as well as a new version of Microsoft’s industry-leading HoloLens. But these are more like save-the-dates than a coming-out party.Cable providers regularly top lists of America’s most-hated companies, and since 2010 more than 13 million people who would have been cable subscribers in happier times have either cut the cord or avoided ever signing up, according to analyst firm MoffettNathanson LLC. The fourth quarter of 2017, during which 3.4 million subscribers quit, was the pay-TV business’s worst ever. Still, because of local monopolies, there’s been no corresponding collapse in broadband subscriptions to the same companies. Big Cable’s role in your life may change, but it’s not going away.Although solar and wind power are coming on strong, don’t expect the grid to transition fully to clean energy anytime soon. In April, Apple Inc. said it now powers all its data centers, offices, and stores in 43 countries with renewables, an impressive feat. The bigger battle: cleaning up Apple’s supply chain, which puts out three-quarters of the company’s emissions. More broadly, four-fifths of the global power supply still depends on fossil fuels. At this rate, the renewable revolution won’t be finished for decades. There are no signs that the planet will stop warming in the meantime.Starting May 25, new rules in Europe require companies such as Facebook Inc. to provide a way for users to download all the photos, posts, and other data they’ve uploaded in a “structured, commonly used, and machine-readable format.” The idea is to make your data as portable from site to site as your phone number is between wireless carriers. Personal data, however, isn’t as straightforward an asset as a phone number. Beyond your lists of friends, Facebook collects all kinds of other information about the connections between you and others, and what you experience on Facebook rests largely on access to other people’s data, as well. It’s tough to see how all that stuff can be both cleanly packaged and adequately protected.Automation is displacing workers, but panic about the coming laborpocalypse is overheated. Take a recent McKinsey & Co. report claiming that as many as 800 million jobs could vanish by 2030. Most headlines neglected to include the accompanying prediction that resulting supply-chain needs could create even more jobs over the same period. So far, some of the smartest robots remain focused on picking up random items from a bin. In an actual workplace, when robots have to pick up heavier objects and contend with human co-workers, even the more impressive models have struggled to function.

2018-05-14T08:00:12.214Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/inside-the-multi-year-quest-to-create-a-bitcoin-etf
Subscribe to the Bloomberg Odd Lots podcast (Pocket Casts) Subscribe to the Bloomberg Odd Lots podcast (Apple Podcasts)Every week, hosts Joe Weisenthal and Tracy Alloway take you on a not-so-random walk through hot topics in markets, finance and economics.When Bitcoin first began generating headlines, there were some who thought the cryptocurrency was a fraud and others who thought it was the next big thing. Greg King, CEO of Rex Shares LLC, was one of the latter. Like the Winklevoss twins, he set out to create an exchange-traded fund (ETF) that would allow people to invest in Bitcoin in a new way. But many years later, the U.S. securities watchdog hasn't approved such plans. On this edition of the Odd Lots podcast, we use the Bitcoin example and King's experience to explain the inner workings of ETFs. 

2018-05-18T14:40:22.390Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-18/sinful-derivatives-have-their-uses
Is CDS evil?Has the Pope been following the Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. trade? Yesterday the Vatican released a bulletin on economic issues, “Oeconomicae et pecuniariae quaestiones,” that spent multiple paragraphs criticizing derivatives in general and credit-default swaps in particular:It is obvious that the uncertainty surrounding these products, such as the steady decline of the transparency of that which is assured, still not appearing in the original operation, makes them continuously less acceptable from the perspective of ethics respectful of the truth and the common good, because it transforms them into a ticking time bomb ready sooner or later to explode, poisoning the health of the markets. It is noted that there is an ethical void which becomes more serious as these products are negotiated on the so-called markets with less regulation (over the counter) and are exposed more to the markets regulated by chance, if not by fraud, and thus take away vital life-lines and investments to the real economy.A similar ethical assessment can be also applied for those uses of credit default swap (CDS: they are particular insurance contracts for the risk of bankruptcy) that permit gambling at the risk of the bankruptcy of a third party, even to those who haven’t taken any such risk of credit earlier, and really to repeat such operations on the same event, which is absolutely not consented to by the normal pact or insurance.The market of CDS, in the wake of the economic crisis of 2007, was imposing enough to represent almost the equivalent of the GDP of the entire world. The spread of such a kind of contract without proper limits has encouraged the growth of a finance of chance, and of gambling on the failure of others, which is unacceptable from the ethical point of view.In fact, the process of acquiring these instruments, by those who do not have any risk of credit already in existence, creates a unique case in which persons start to nurture interests for the ruin of other economic entities, and can even resolve themselves to do so.The document does not appear to be available in Latin, which is disappointing, as you cannot exactly say that it reads like English. As for its economic analysis, it feels a little old-fashioned, doesn’t it? The fact that the CDS and securitization markets were enormous and risky in 2007 is interesting as a matter of historical fact, but arguably not a reason to excommunicate them in 2018, when they are smaller and more chastened. The Vatican takes the long view, though, and there is no reason to expect it to react to financial developments in anything like real time. It will be centuries before a new Dante describes a new circle of Hell where the CDS traders go.Something else feels old-fashioned about it. The idea that CDS buyers “start to nurture interests for the ruin of other economic entities, and can even resolve themselves to do so,” is a standard one. People worry that “empty creditors,” who own a company’s debt but are hedged with CDS, will have an incentive to force it into bankruptcy, and they worry that “naked CDS” positions give speculators an incentive to attack otherwise viable companies.But all the recent CDS controversies look very different. In the Hovnanian trade, which  we  have  talked  about many times, an “empty creditor”—a hedge fund that owned Hovnanian debt but also owned CDS—came to the company with a solution for its money problems. Now, yes, that solution involved it defaulting on its debt, I cannot deny that, but the default was tiny and contained and allowed Hovnanian to finance itself more cheaply. It involved a transfer of money from the CDS market (specifically CDS sellers) to the company (and sure also CDS buyers). In the less-discussed but also delightful  McClatchy Co. trade, meanwhile, a CDS seller came to the company with a solution to its money problems, one that happened to transfer money from CDS buyers to the company (and the sellers). In both cases, the CDS market was harnessed not to “take away vital life-lines and investments to the real economy,” but to provide those life-lines. More houses can get built, and more newspapers can get printed, because of these CDS trades.In sneaky and upsetting ways, sure, fine, and that is part of what the Vatican is objecting to. (I think? I don’t really know how to parse “really to repeat such operations on the same event, which is absolutely not consented to by the normal pact or insurance”; again I think it might make more sense in Latin.) And it is certainly tough when the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Goldman Sachs and the Pope all object to your CDS trade. But surely the Pope can’t object that much to CDS traders ripping each other off, since both sides of the trade were sinful anyway?The real objection seems to be the one about the “vital life-lines,” the idea that all this frenzy of derivatives takes economic activity away from the real world and puts it instead into a wasteful zero-sum casino. That too is a standard worry, but it feels strange to derivatives people. Sure a derivative is a zero-sum side bet not directly involving the real underlying economic activity, but that is just a formal distinction. Derivatives trading works by arbitrage; if the price of a derivative and the underlying thing diverge, then someone will trade in the underlying thing to bring them back in line, meaning that derivatives markets constantly and inevitably affect the real underlying world. Mortgage securitizations made it easier to build more houses. (Too many houses, sure!) Bitcoin futures arguably  affected the price of real Bitcoins. And zero-sum side bets on CDS can, it turns out, be transformed into actual loans to struggling companies. There is nothing unexpected about that. It is the central magic of the financial system: Derivatives make it easier to find the right price for something, and finding the right price for a thing allows real resources to flow into it. If you are a believer in that magic, the entire world can seem suffused with the power of derivatives, and those derivatives can be harnessed to do real good in the world. You just have to have some faith.CBS v. Redstone.We have  talked  all  week about the weird drama at CBS Corp., where the board of directors is trying to get rid of its controlling shareholder, Shari Redstone’s National Amusements Inc., because it claims Redstone wants to force through a merger with Viacom Inc. Somehow the situation got even weirder yesterday, with a Schrödinger weirdness whereby the board has voted to get rid of Redstone, while Redstone has voted to make that impossible, and each of those results is contingent and hypothetical and awaits ultimate resolution by a Delaware chancellor. Eventually, probably months from now, we will find out that the board got rid of Redstone yesterday, or it didn’t, but meanwhile they will have to live together in quantum superposition and also extreme awkwardness.What happened? Well, first of all, on Wednesday, Redstone amended CBS’s bylaws to, “among other things, require approval by 90% of the directors then in office at two separate meetings held at least twenty business days apart in order to declare a dividend,” which would prevent the board from carrying out its plan to declare a voting-stock dividend that would dilute Redstone’s voting power from 79.6 percent down to 17 percent. (Three of CBS’s 14 directors are NAI designees, including Redstone, so that would practically kill the dilution-by-stock-dividend plan. NAI’s economic interest in CBS is about 10.3 percent, but it owns most of the voting stock.)Then, on Thursday, Delaware Chancellor Andre Bouchard ruled against CBS’s request for a temporary restraining order to prevent Redstone from doing, um, the thing she had just done. The board had asked Bouchard to order Redstone and NAI not to interfere with the board meeting intended to dilute her, and he said no: “No precedent has been identified, however, in which the court has ever entertained, much less sanctioned, the type of request for relief that plaintiffs make here.” He added that the board’s worries are overblown: Its stated reason for diluting Redstone was to prevent her from forcing through a Viacom merger that would be bad for CBS shareholders, and Bouchard pointed out that there are lots of less drastic ways for him to do that. “To the contrary, the court has extensive power to provide redress if Ms. Redstone takes action(s) inconsistent with the fiduciary obligations owed by a controlling stockholder.”He was less dismissive than  I was, though:On the other hand, there is a line of authority emanating from Mendel v. Carroll, where Chancellor Allen expressed an openness to “the possibility that a situation might arise in which a board could, consistently with its fiduciary duties, issue a dilutive option in order to protect the corporation or its minority shareholders from exploitation by a controlling shareholder who was in the process of threatening to violate his fiduciary duties to the corporation.” It could be argued that, implicit in this reasoning, it would be reasonable in an appropriate circumstance to afford a board “breathing space” to deliberate over such options free from the preemptive power of a controller by affording temporary relief of the type plaintiffs seek here. And then later on Thursday the board held its meeting to dilute Redstone (which she attended), and voted 11 to 3 to do it. Well, not exactly to do it, but to do it if it turns out to be legal:The payment of the dividend is conditioned on a final determination by the Delaware courts, including a final decision on or the exhaustion of time for any appeals, that the dividend is permissible. The record date for the dividend will be 10 days following such final determination by the Delaware courts or on the next business day after the end of such 10-day period. It probably isn’t legal, both because it is ridiculous in itself (directors can’t really get rid of a controlling shareholder just to prevent her from firing them, can they?) and also because it violates Redstone’s new bylaws. But I guess it is in the queue now anyway, and if the Delaware courts eventually rule that it worked, then it will have worked. But in any case it hasn’t worked yet; even if the dividend does turn out to be valid then it won’t be distributed for ages. Which means that Redstone still controls about 80 percent of CBS’s stock, and can easily vote the directors out. There is an argument for her not to do that—basically, the nicer and more conciliatory she is, the less justified the board’s concerns look, and the more likely the court is to side with her—but I have to say, if I were her, I’d fire them all today. I guess I would make that firing also contingent on a Delaware court’s approval. And so you’d end up with two parallel CBSes, one with Redstone as a controlling shareholder and a brand-new board, and another with the old board and no controlling shareholder, and they’d both go along making their own decisions for months until a court sorted out which was the real CBS. Crypto scammo.“In a review of documents produced for 1,450 digital coin offerings, The Wall Street Journal has found 271 with red flags that include plagiarized investor documents, promises of guaranteed returns and missing or fake executive teams,” which … seems … low? Perhaps my sample is biased because people send me the worst ones, but if you had asked me “what percentage of initial coin offerings are transparent nonsense,” I would have guessed somewhere north of 50? But the Journal found obvious red flags in only 18.7 percent of deals. Great!? The red flags are pretty bad though:The Journal found lawyers in California, an escrow agent based in Ukraine and the co-owner of a media company whose identities had been hijacked in order to lend credibility to a range of cryptocurrency projects involving education, e-commerce and crypto mining.“I’m a little creeped out by the whole thing,” said Amanda Gavin, co-owner of a media production company in San Francisco, whose image and name were taken from her LinkedIn page and used for a coin offering she had never heard of called Pixiu.I tell you what, if you come across an ICO that uses my picture, (1) it is fake and (2) please do send it my way. Unless I have specifically advertised it on Money Stuff. I feel like I am constantly coming up with great ideas for ICOs— ExcelCoin,  CoinNameCoin—and eventually the temptation to actually raise money will become too great. Especially given how easy it apparently is to plagiarize a white paper, guarantee some returns, and watch the money roll in.People are worried about unicorns.We  talked last month about the weirdly common Silicon Valley business model of “rapidly growing a business by selling its products below cost, subsidized by huge venture-capital investments, in the hopes of one day flipping to profitability once you’ve achieved scale.” One way to think about that model is as a cold-blooded rational economic calculation: The financial benefits of entrenching your company into everyone’s digital lives are so big that losing even billions of dollars to get there can be worth it.But there are other ways to think about it, and they are much more fun. For instance, I like to think of it as a sort of venture-capitalist false consciousness. An important story of the modern technology industry is its contribution to inequality, as entrepreneurs and venture capitalists become fabulously wealthy with scalable digital products that do not create lots of middle-class jobs to match the wealth they build for their tiny elite class of owners. In the limit, robots will do all the work, and the people who invent and own the robots will have all the wealth, and everyone else will … what? Starve? Revolt? Maybe they will live off subsidies thrown off by venture capitalists who want to achieve scale. I wrote:It is pleasing to imagine that the VCs might give away their products because they are (1) rapacious growth-hungry capitalists and (2) confused. “Please give me free food so that you can grow your daily active user base,” you’d say to the robot-farm monopoly, and its owners would reply “yes, scale, we must scale, here is your food,” and you’d be pleased to have put one over on capitalism.The fun view of the venture-capital-subsidized perpetual-loss-leading user-growth-at-any-cost economy is that it represents socialism as the transcendent end state of capitalism, a capitalism that is so refined that it consists of just giving people free stuff in exchange only for their willingness to take it. Kevin Roose at the New York Times wrote about this model the other day, with the headline “The Entire Economy Is MoviePass Now,” referencing MoviePass’s particularly silly approach in which you can see unlimited movies for less than the price of one movie ticket, with MoviePass eating the difference. (Though MoviePass is part of a public company, so it is not venture money.) He wrote:I’ve got a great idea for a start-up. Want to hear the pitch?It’s called the 75 Cent Dollar Store. We’re going to sell dollar bills for 75 cents — no service charges, no hidden fees, just crisp $1 bills for the price of three quarters. It’ll be huge.Look he hasn’t gotten funding yet but give him time.I will do him one better though. My startup will be an online subscription service in which we mail people checks, or Venmo them money maybe, or ugh send them Bitcoins who cares. They don’t have to give us quarters or anything. It’s just free; all they have to do is sign up. I expect that my monthly-active-user growth rate will be more than sufficient to support a $50 billion valuation; who’s in?  I call it the Silicon Valley Universal Basic Income Project.Things happen.Fujifilm to Challenge Xerox Call to  Scrap $6.1 Billion Deal. Wells Fargo Employees Altered Information on Business Customers’ Documents. Argentina’s Madcap Century Bond Has Beaten Treasurys. What Exactly Happened to David Einhorn? Behind the scenes of the shakeup at the top of Goldman Sachs' trading division—and what it means about the future of the firm. Private Equity Wins as Banks’  Leveraged Buyout Fears Dwindle.  Tricadia Capital Sees Assets Halved, Managers Depart. ‘Wolf of Wall Street’ Jordan Belfort  Isn't Paying His Debts, U.S. Says. Citigroup Fined More Than $7 Million by Hong Kong Regulator. SEC Charges Owner of Alternative Investment Firm in Belize Airport Financing Scam. PayPal Agrees to $2.2 Billion Deal for European Payments Start-Up iZettle. LSE Reveals  London-Shanghai Stock Link Details. Legislation to Curb Chinese Deals Moves Through Congress. Chinese Bank Offered Clients Chance to  Dine With Trump for $150,000. Steve Wynn's Picasso Was Damaged by  Falling Paint Pole. Rich Baby Boomers Don’t Want to Have to  Leave Their Master Bedrooms. “I call it the  big Dorito effect.” Lewd Hat Prompts New Sexism Probe at Coutts, Bank to British Royalty. “It's an incredible story, it is a person, he is a member of the original cast of CATS on Broadway.”If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-16T04:38:04.314Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-16/snoop-dogg-helps-ripple-s-crypto-community-get-high-at-xrp-event
The smell of marijuana wafted through a half-filled event space in Manhattan’s Meatpacking District, as a group of cryptocurrency believers downed champagne and blood orange margaritas.The event, sponsored by Ripple Labs Inc., brought together XRP loyalists and skeptics alike for a concert headlined by 46-year-old rapper Snoop Dogg on Tuesday evening. The invitation-only XRP Community Night celebrated a popular but controversial token intended to disrupt international money transfers.Snoop Dogg at XRP Community Night on May 15.“Whenever I hear the word ‘promotion’ it makes me cringe,” said Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse, adding that the event was meant to build community, not hype, around Ripple’s XRP, the world’s third-largest digital currency. Garlinghouse said he wasn’t the one who picked Snoop Dogg as the headliner.Not everyone there was sold on XRP.One attendee, in town from the Netherlands for New York’s Blockchain Week, criticized the cryptocurrency, saying it relies on banks instead of disrupting them. Others, including bankers from Wall Street firms, questioned the legitimacy of digital tokens in general.But the detractors were balanced by longstanding XRP fans. One developer in town from Austria said he’s been part of the XRP community since 2013 because he believes in the technology. Another said his entire family has invested in the coin.Around 9 p.m., Snoop Dogg arrived to an adoring crowd sporting Patagonia fleeces, button-up shirts and Team Ripple tees.“So what we get drunk, so what we smoke weed,” they sang along as Snoop strutted onstage flanked by dancers in rhinestone bras and a person in a canine costume, wearing a jacket with ‘Dirty Dogg’ written on the back.This wasn’t Snoop Dogg’s first encounter with cryptocurrency. “My next record available in bitcoin n delivered in a drone,” he wrote on Twitter in 2013.But this time around, the rapper said nothing explicit about digital currency investment onstage. He wasn’t paid in XRP for his performance, according to two Ripple representatives at the event.Near the end of the show, Snoop asked the audience a question: “Do you wanna a) hang out with me, b) drink with me or c) smoke some [expletive] weed with me?”The audience overwhelmingly chose C.

2018-05-11T15:02:39.395Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-11/bitcoin-faces-death-cross-after-falling-below-9-000
Bitcoin’s plunge back below $9,000 has the cryptocurrency facing a dreaded death cross. This occurs when the 50-day moving average breaks below its 200-day counterpart on a closing basis. As the name implies, it’s considered a bearish development.This would be the first death cross for Bitcoin since 2015.To be sure, there are some countervailing technical signals suggesting this event might not be so crippling. The 200-day moving average is still rising and served as intraday support Friday. In addition, Bitcoin is setting higher lows, with April’s trough higher than February’s.— With assistance by Andrew Cinko

2018-05-10T18:28:18.581Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-10/huawei-is-about-to-give-chinese-users-easier-access-to-bitcoin
Users of Huawei Technologies Co.’s mobile phones will be able to download Bitcoin wallets on their devices for the first time starting Friday.Huawei, the world’s third-biggest handset maker, is releasing BTC.com’s Bitcoin wallet in its AppGallery, according to an e-mail statement by the company. The BTC.com wallet will be the first cryptocurrency app offered by Shenzhen-based Huawei. The AppGallery will be pre-installed on all new Huawei and Honor phones and will be rolled out to older devices in the coming months.“BTC’s Bitcoin wallet application was reviewed by AppGallery, and was approved for official release in multiple countries and regions, not including Mainland China,” a Huawei spokesman said in a statement.BTC.com, which also controls the world’s largest Bitcoin mining pool, is owned by mining hardware manufacturer Bitmain Technologies. Huawei is considering developing a mobile phone targeting blockchain-based applications, Bloomberg News reported in March.

2018-05-17T20:45:13.910Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-17/your-evening-briefing
Want to receive this post in your inbox every afternoon? Sign up here.It’s one thing to have Warren Buffett say your job deals in “weapons of mass destruction,” but when the Pope himself calls you out for imposing a “ticking time bomb” on the global economy, well, that may give even the most mercenary master of the universe pause.  This Harvard economist warns emerging markets are in worse shape now than during the global financial crisis in 2008.The Trump administration is distancing itself from National Security Adviser John Bolton and ignoring a flurry of insults North Korea directed at Seoul as it tries to salvage a planned summit.Europe is getting angry with Donald Trump. EU leaders presented a united front at a meeting in Bulgaria, laying the groundwork for retaliation if White House trade threats are carried out.Meanwhile, Trump's threats of trade war with China may have helped drive that nation into the arms of Russia, at least when it comes to buying tons of soybeans.So much for low interest rates. U.S. homebuyers, already dealing with rising prices, now get to pay higher rates on their mortgages, too. So they're stepping over each other to close deals fast.The heaviest smokers in the U.S. are the ones who can benefit most from early CT scans, but only 2 percent of them actually do so, and nobody knows why.What's Joe Weisenthal thinking? The Bloomberg news director is looking at what impact higher interest rates may have on the stock market, and concludes there's no simple answer.When your teeny-tiny super-rich principality isn’t big enough. First-time visitors to Monte Carlo for next weekend’s Grand Prix may not find the view to their liking. The fabled principality is  pouring thousands of tons of sand into a shallow harbor at a cost of $2.4 billion, increasing its size by 3 percent. It’s part of a plan to rescue the tax haven with the world's most expensive real estate from a housing shortage.

2018-05-14T17:47:35.174Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/staged-protests-rented-lambos-show-bitcoin-hype-alive-and-well
John Nouri makes a living renting out exotic cars for weddings, birthdays, bachelorette parties, and now … Bitcoin conferences?Today he stood outside the Hilton Midtown hotel in Manhattan, guarding three Lamborghinis -- bright orange, navy blue and black -- that Broadway SuperCars had rented to BitMex for the day. Nouri declined to disclose how much the crypto exchange had paid, but said a rental like that typically goes for around $1,000.Bitcoin Bros Lamborghini or Smart Marketing?The flashy cars that symbolize conspicuous consumption among Bitcoin true-believers had caused a stir earlier as they roared through the streets near the hotel. Another stunt came from an upstart mining company called Genesis Mining. The firm hired actors to portray aggrieved bankers who will lose their financial services jobs when blockchain takes over the industry.The gimmicks show that the hype that surrounded Bitcoin as it burst on the mainstream last year remains alive and well even after the biggest digital coin fell more than 50 percent from its December peak of almost $20,000.Genesis said the protest was a “fun way” to show how crypto can upend banking “if they fail to adapt to the new world we live in,” according to a blog post on its website.A hundred feet away, MK Li stood in front of the revolving hotel doors with a sign that read “Help a fellow VC to pay for this expensive conference!” Sporting a pink button-down shirt with a purple bowtie, the conference goer was accepting donations in digital tokens -- a way to protest the hefty price he’d paid for a conference about a technology that was meant to eliminate the need for expensive middlemen.Ticket prices ranged from from $1,499 to $2,999, suggesting that organizer CoinDesk Inc. raked in at least $12.8 million in revenue from admissions alone. There are also more than 100 sponsors such as IBM, SAP and Microsoft Corp.Lamborghini parked in midtown Manhattan.Inside the hotel, several floors up, one peeved attendee said to another, “How is this not a fire-code violation?’’ The two stood in the doorway of a packed ballroom, straining their necks to get a glimpse of a presentation about Cryptogaphic Innovations.The hype is real at Consensus, the biggest of about two dozen events that make up “Blockchain Week.’’ So far, the conference — which is expected to bring in more than 8,000 people this year — has featured flannels, business suits, cowboy hats and dreadlocks amid a standing-room only sea of crypto and blockchain enthusiasts.Sima Baktas, who works for a blockchain startup in Istanbul, sported a T-shirt that said “Satoshi is Female,’’ -- a reference to the mysterious and still-unknown author of the original Bitcoin whitepaper. Nearby, a man wore a red sweater covered in pictures of dollar bills.

2018-05-15T16:52:44.425Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/cme-to-gauge-user-interest-for-ether-futures-after-index-launch
CME Group Inc. will review client demand for Ether futures after launching an index tracking prices of the second-largest cryptocurrency.“We’ll continue to gauge with them to ascertain the demand for futures,” Tim McCourt, CME’s head of equity products, said during an interview Monday at an industry conference in New York. “There are no plans at the exchange to launch one currently.”CME started publishing the CME CF Ether-Dollar Reference Rate and the CME CF Ether-Dollar Real Time Index on its website Monday. Trading platform Crypto Facilities Ltd. calculates the rates using transactions and order book activity from cryptocurrency exchanges Kraken and Bitstamp.CME launched the Bitcoin reference rate and index in November 2016 and started offering Bitcoin futures in December. While Bitcoin futures trading volume has been lower than what some expected given the hype around the launch, McCourt said CME is encouraged to see volume rising every month and the tight spread between futures prices and the spot market.Claims that Bitcoin futures trading on the CME and Cboe Global Markets Inc. led to the decline in the cryptocurrency’s prices are probably off, McCourt said.“If you look at the notional that trades, it’s tough to say that futures were responsible for that selloff given the relatively small percentage contribution to Bitcoin trading,” he said.There’s demand for physically-delivered Bitcoin futures in addition to the CME’s and Cboe’s cash-settled ones, but the market infrastructure for institutional trading of such a contract isn’t there yet, he said.“There’s a clear demand for it in the market; people would welcome that innovation,” McCourt said. “With physical delivery you have to figure out what to do with the Bitcoin; are you going the custody route, are you going the private key route, those are very interesting questions and we’re looking forward to some of those solutions availing themselves in the market, but right now the community is best served by a financial contract.”

2018-05-17T13:15:10.838Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-17/-135-in-a-slot-machine-every-20-seconds-is-crazy
You can make a lot of money selling unhealthy things, especially when they’re addictive. Tobacco companies, sugary drinks makers and gambling firms enjoy some of the fattest gross margins in the U.K. (up to 80 percent), a sign of high pricing power. So it’s wise to treat corporate protests against more taxation and regulation with a dose of sobriety. The furor over a political clampdown on British betting shops is no exception.Gross margins for some "sin" stocks are among the 20 highest in the U.K.Source: BloombergThe U.K. government has delivered on its threat to slash the maximum bets on so-called “fixed-odds betting terminals,” the brightly-colored, casino-style games played on a screen in-store. The upper limit will now be 2 pounds ($2.70), down from 100 pounds ($135), every 20 seconds. Politicians have given a very clear and succinct reason for the cap: Problem gamblers are a greater cost to society than to themselves. And, given how easy it is to get hooked, it takes drastic measures to make progress.The response from the gambling industry — though not entirely uniform — has been to protest at the shop closures, job losses and financial pain that will result. William Hill has said 900 of its stores would become unprofitable immediately, as more than two-thirds of its net revenue from gaming machines came from bets above the 2 pound limit. It said annualized adjusted operating profit would fall by an estimated 70 to 100 million pounds, after closures and cuts.But it’s hard to get that worked up about the corporate impact. Shares of GVC, William Hill and Paddy Power Betfair rose by 2 to 4 percent on Thursday. The change had been well-flagged this week and the bookies will have a few years to adjust. Gaming machines were a tremendous cash cow, but most future growth is expected to be online anyway. William Hill even rewards executives for business “diversification” as part of their long-term incentive plan. Analyst forecasts for its earnings and dividends have only been adjusted downward by about 2 percent.Shares of betting firms have shrugged off the impact of curbs, given the time to adjustSource: BloombergWhich begs the question: Is it still worth it? If companies can easily shut underperforming stores and sack staff in response, and if the Internet allows people to gamble in all sorts of exotic ways anyway — from games and sports bets to risky crypto-currencies — is it still worth hurting workers?The answer’s still yes. Defending harmful products in the name of the workforce that sells them seems pretty cynical, considering not just the harm from problem gambling but also the high number of unemployed customers. Jobless people are twice as likely to play fixed-odds betting terminals as those who are employed, according to DJS Research.Probability change in behavior for unemployed gamblers versus those in employmentSource: U.K. Gambling CommissionThe idea that local economies suffer because of boarded up betting shops is worth testing. Some local councils have tried in vain to stop their spread anyway, which suggests they don’t see them as an unalloyed good. If these shops are as central to community spirit as their owners claim, they will surely find ways to keep going.In a world where Bitcoin can be drawn from an ATM and risky CFDs can be traded on your phone, reducing the temptations of betting shops on British streets is a small step in the right direction. The odds of significantly reducing gambling addiction are long, but it’s worth a punt.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Lionel Laurent at llaurent2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Boxell at jboxell@bloomberg.net

2018-05-16T21:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-16/bargain-hunting-chinese-make-this-japan-retail-king-billionaire
Japanese retail tycoon Ryuji Arai can thank a growing flock of Chinese spenders for his swelling fortune.Bic Camera Inc., the Tokyo-based consumer electronics retailer that sells everything from cosmetics to liquor at discounted prices, has become a sought-after destination for tourists shopping in Japan. Profit has jumped to a record, sending its shares up by more than 50 percent over the past year.The surge has given 71-year-old Arai a $1.8 billion fortune, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Arai, who founded the retailer four decades ago and steered the company to its initial public offering in 2006, is now chairman at the company. He owns a 43 percent stake in the shares through a set of trusts and his asset management company La Holdings.Bic Camera has won tourists over with bargain prices offered in its stores along with duty-free desks, and by giving overseas shoppers the option to make online reservations for products they wish to purchase. The company is also trying to woo Chinese shoppers by accepting payment methods such as Alipay, Wechat and even Bitcoin -- which is helping boost sales, said Bloomberg Intelligence Consumer Analyst Thomas Jastrzab."Bic Camera’s early adoption of new payment options could give it an edge over more cautious rivals," said Jastrzab.Not much is known about the reclusive businessman. Bic Camera declined to make him available for comment for this story. He started his first company in his early twenties and later spun out the camera sales division into its own company, according to local media reports. He then went on to form Bic Camera in his early thirties with the opening of a store in Tokyo’s Ikebukuro shopping district.Arai is an anti-nuclear advocate, and Bic Camera displayed huge banners in 1995 to protest France’s plan at the time to resume nuclear tests in the South Pacific, the Yomiuri newspaper reported at the time.In 2009, Arai stepped down as chairman of Bic Camera after the company became embroiled in a scandal over false earnings reports. After the shares lost almost half their value in January that year, they rallied when the company was allowed to retain its listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and it restated earnings for the fiscal years 2006 to 2008. The company was fined $1.3 million. He retook the role of chairman, without any directors role, several years later. Since then, Bic Camera shares have climbed eight-fold.After relinquishing the chairman role, Arai remained the largest shareholder of Bic Camera.A customer looks at televisions at a Bic Camera store in Tokyo.Bic Camera has teamed up with Haneda Airport’s terminal operator, Japan Airport Terminal Co., to launch stores in airport terminals as well as Tokyo’s Odaiba shopping and entertainment district, according to Masanari Matsumoto, a spokesman for the company. Those stores are stocked with goods popular with inbound tourists to let them quickly find what they want, Matsumoto said. Inbound tourists shoppers to the electronics retailer have more than tripled in three years, according to the company.In recent years, the company has also ramped up sales through its own website and stores on e-commerce sites such as Rakuten and Amazon.com. Online sales accounted for about 10 percent of overall revenue in the six-month period ended Feb. 28, according to company filings.Bic Camera's net income jumps more than five-fold over past four years  Source: Company filings The company’s net income climbed fivefold to a record 13.5 billion yen ($122.6 million) in the financial year ended Aug. 31, according to figures from the company. Bic Camera predicts profit will increase to 16.4 billion yen this fiscal year.That strategy has helped Bic Camera become Japan’s third-biggest electronics and appliance retailer while offsetting the impact of a declining population at home. Bic Camera will benefit more than other big-box electronics retailers such as its competitors Yamada Denki Co. and Edion Corp. from the recovery in demand for digital consumer electronics, according to a Nomura Holdings Inc. research note last month.Online sales, with an increase in the weighting of sales on the company’s own website, will drive growth over the longer term, according to Nomura. While customers using Bitcoin have yet to account for a significant portion of sales, the option could help attract more foreign customers, especially during the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.‘‘Quickly adding additional payment options is a good way to achieve differentiation,’’ said Bloomberg Intelligence’s Jastrzab. ‘‘It also helps to boost brand equity by creating a buzz with potential customers.’’— With assistance by Pei Yi Mak

2018-05-14T23:00:00.002Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/former-ubs-china-president-joins-cryptocurrency-company-as-ceo
Karen Chen, the former president of UBS (China) Ltd., has been appointed chief executive officer at cryptocurrency firm Higgs Block Technology Pte. Ltd., joining other finance veterans in jumping ship to the burgeoning digital-asset industry.Chen started at Higgs Block in December, the Singapore-based blockchain company said in a statement. The group, founded in August, includes an exchange called Coinsuper and units that provide private-banking, over-the-counter trading and consulting services for cryptocurrencies. Chen left UBS in October for family reasons, she said in a phone interview on Tuesday.A growing number of financial professionals have joined cryptocurrency companies after spectacular gains in Bitcoin and its peers over the past year lured mainstream investors.“There are many challenges, including security, risk management, custodian and settlement issues,” said Hong Kong-based Chen, one of the few female executives in the male-dominated industry. “Those important controls and risk management rules haven’t all been adopted in the crypto world. That offers the business good opportunities.”While finance-to-crypto moves have been less common in China after the government banned digital-asset exchanges and initial coin offerings, Chen said Higgs Block is offering blockchain advisory services to its Chinese clients. The technology is still highly relevant in the country despite the crackdown on cryptocurrencies, she said. 

2018-05-15T10:00:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/crypto-never-sleeps-now-drw-s-big-trading-desk-doesn-t-either
Much like the market where it trades, the cryptocurrency desk at DRW Holdings LLC is going non-stop.Its Cumberland division will now buy and sell Bitcoin, Ether and about 30 other cryptocurrencies 24 hours a day, seven days a week, lead trader Bobby Cho said in an interview. A November expansion in Singapore allowed Chicago-based Cumberland to do business with customers non-stop on weekdays, but demand didn’t cease on Saturdays and Sundays, he said.“It all stems from the underlying market being 24/7,” said Cho, who plans to discuss the expanded hours later on Tuesday at the Consensus crypto conference in New York.The around-the-clock coverage is a first for DRW, which trades derivatives and equities with its own money on exchanges around the world. In the broader financial world, it’s also the first desk to never close, according to DRW. While the traditional currency market shutters over the weekend, crypto never sleeps, DRW spokeswoman Jessica Iverson said.Several dozen people work for Cumberland worldwide, Iverson said. As well as trading Bitcoin and other digital assets for fiat currency, Cumberland also offers nearly 500 pairs of crypto assets like Bitcoin-Ether or Litecoin-XRP. The firm trades on exchanges and also does private over-the-counter deals with customers.After a period of testing in the first quarter of the year, Cumberland is now offering its 24/7 service to all its customers, Cho said. “We wanted to make sure we had all our ducks in a row,” he said.

2018-05-15T22:00:00.007Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/u-s-crypto-trading-platforms-are-about-to-get-more-competition
Cryptocurrency trading platform eToro plans to open its doors to U.S. investors.U.S. users can join the waiting list for the Tel Aviv-based platform and the service will be rolled out in the second-half of this year, eToro Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Yoni Assia said in an interview Tuesday.The platform will initially offer 10 tokens -- Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, Ripple XRP, Dash, Bitcoin Cash, Stellar, Ethereum Classic, NEO and EOS -- that can be traded for each other or for dollars. The primary focus will be individual investors, Assia said. eToro has more than 10 million users in Europe, Asia and the Middle East, and raised more than $162 million in capital funding, according to an emailed statement.“eToro will continue to focus on simplicity and user-friendliness so that more diverse groups will feel welcomed into the global crypto community,” he said.Before the platform goes live, users will be able to trade in a mock cryptocurrency portfolio. They can then choose to have their portfolios to automatically match those of top-performing investors in the platform.The minimum investment is $25. Debit cards and ACH will be usable at launch, and eToro will work on supporting credit cards at a later date.eToro U.S.A will be based in New Jersey and is registered with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network as a money transmitter, Assia said. eToro Europe Ltd. is authorized and regulated by the Cyprus Securities Exchange Commission and eToro UK Ltd. is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, according to the company’s website.The platform stores clients’ assets in its own so-called cold storage solution, which involves taking crypto keys offline. eToro also plans to roll out a digital asset wallet for users to send and receive cryptocurrencies.

2018-05-14T10:29:51.814Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereU.S.-China trade tensions ease, Italy’s populists take the populist route and OPEC has a buffer to offset Iran sanctions. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Chinese Vice Premier Liu He will travel to the U.S. on Tuesday for trade talks with Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin as the standoff between the two countries appeared to ease over the weekend. Yesterday, President Donald Trump called for China’s ZTE Corp., which had been hit by sanctions, to be allowed to “get back into business, fast” in a tweet that showed a major reversal of recent policy. The seven-year ban on purchases of crucial technology had left ZTE on the brink of collapse. Chinese regulators have restarted their review of Qualcomm Inc.’s application to acquire NXP Semiconductors NV after Trump’s tweet, according to people familiar with the matter. Italy’s populist Five Star Movement and League have all-but agreed a program for government that will see the proposed introduction of a flat tax as low as 15 percent, a guaranteed income for the poor and a lowering of the retirement age. For now, the market reaction to the proposals has been rather muted as analysts see a large gulf between the parties’ proposals and their ability to get new laws passed. There is also a chance negotiations could still fail as both sides seek a neutral role for the prime minister. United Arab Emirates Energy Minister Suhail Al Mazrouei said that OPEC has enough spare capacity to make up any supply constraints as the U.S. re-imposes sanctions on Iran. A barrel of West Texas Intermediate for June delivery was trading at $70.62 by 5:40 a.m. Eastern Time as the recent run-up in crude paused. More broadly on Iran, National Security Adviser John Bolton warned yesterday that European countries and companies that continue to do business with the Islamic Republic could also face U.S. sanctions. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 0.5 percent, while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.6 percent higher as company buybacks lifted stocks there. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1 percent lower at 5:40 a.m. with oil stocks slipping and Nokia dropping after Trump’s ZTE move. S&P 500 futures pointed to a small gain at the open, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.986 percent and gold was flat. The new U.S. embassy in Jerusalem will be inaugurated today, as one of Trump’s most contentious foreign policy decisions is fulfilled. Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, Trump’s daughter and son-in-law, are among the U.S. delegation. The move comes amid increasing regional tensions as Iran and Israel trade rocket fire as part of their (and everyone else’s) Syrian proxy war. This is what's caught our eye over the weekend

2018-05-15T17:45:03.323Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-15/volcker-rule-changes-would-only-widen-existing-loopholes
The Volcker Rule — which limits banks from risking their own, and more importantly, their depositors’, money on the trading floor — was always supposed to be a regulation that was all about what feels right. Former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker said as much when he advocated for the rule shortly after the financial crisis, equating proprietary trading to pornography with the old line that you know it when you see it.Nonetheless, in the four years since it has been around, the implementation of the actual Volcker Rule, the one that is more than 70 pages long (though not 800 as critics often claim) has been more about process than principals. Lots of trades that look like proprietary trading have been nonetheless deemed doable under Volcker in part because, by the letter of the law, they’re allowed. The rule has lots of gray areas. I made a list of them a few years ago. But there are more recent examples.Banks have recently upped their daily market exposure, but it's still down post-Volcker RuleSource: BloombergMeasure is the bank's reported daily VaR adjusted for changes in the VIX.Take the recent controversy around Hovnanian Enterprises Inc.’s credit default swaps. The homebuilder has worked out a deal with Blackstone Group to default on certain bonds in order to trigger a payout on CDS that Blackstone bought. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and a hedge fund that are on the losing end of that trade have reportedly looked into driving up the price of Hovnanian’s bonds in order to curtail their CDS losses.Even if Goldman were to buy up the Hovnanian bonds with its own money in a trade that would be to its benefit, the purchases would be allowed under Volcker. The rule only stipulates that banks have to have a client purpose when entering a trade, which Goldman presumably had when it sold CDS protection against a potential Hovnanian default. When it comes to exiting a trade, and limiting losses along the way, banks — even under Volcker — are allowed to do whatever they want. Manipulating the value of the underlying bond related to your client-driven derivative trade with your own money is Volcker compliant.Another recent Goldman example is the firm’s plan to set up a Bitcoin trading desk, and potentially risk its own money in the cryptocurrency market, which itself is still in a state of regulatory limbo. But again Volcker won’t stop Goldman. There is plenty of evidence that clients want to trade Bitcoin, the key litmus test under Volcker. What’s more, regulators have only brought one enforcement action under the rule, against Deutsche Bank last year, and the cause of the infraction didn’t seem to have much to do with prop trading. The Volcker Rule won't stop banks from diving into cryptocurrencies Source: BloombergOn Tuesday, Bloomberg reported that regulators are set to stretch Volcker’s actual loopholes even wider. The Fed and other regulators are poised to drop a key stipulation of the rule: that any trade that a bank holds for less than 60 days is speculative, and therefore not allowed.A relaxation of the Volcker Rule was on the Treasury Department’s bank regulator rollback wish list that it put out last year. That regulators are going ahead with it will inflame critics who say the Trump administration is stripping away the protections put in place after the financial crisis, and setting us up for another one. The rewrite, though, doesn’t really reverse the rule’s restriction on proprietary trading. Banks still aren’t allowed to make short-term trades that are in fact prop trades. It just gives regulators more leeway to decide what is prop trading and what isn’t, which again is what Volcker himself advocated for in the first place.The surprising thing is that despite all the loopholes, Volcker actually appears to be working. It has significantly limited the type of activity it was meant to curtail. Banks have been ramping up their trading risk a bit lately, but it is still way down from what it was before Dodd-Frank. Most banks largely eliminated their prop-trading divisions a few years ago, and there’s no indication they are coming back, even under the Trump administration’s lighter touch. That could be in part because investors want banks to be less risky, but it’s hard not to give Volcker some credit as well.There is reason to be concerned about the Trump administration’s efforts to soften banking oversight, particularly those that are motivated by the misguided belief that somehow overly restrictive regulations are holding back banks from lending, or at least from making sensible loans. Capital rules should remain stringent and left in place. Save the stress tests. But don’t shed too many tears over the proposed change in the Volcker Rule. Forcing regulators to use their own judgment as to what is a prop trade may make the right regulators more active in policing it. For those who don’t really want to police the rule, or are looking for ways around it, the loopholes were there already.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Stephen Gandel at sgandel2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Beth Williams at bewilliams@bloomberg.net

2018-05-11T12:53:58.051Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-11/bitcoin-slips-below-9-000-as-korean-exchange-raid-renews-fears
Bitcoin was on course to eke out two weeks in a row above the $9,000 mark, until now.The top digital token broke its streak Friday after South Korean prosecutors raided the offices of Upbit, one of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges, renewing concerns that heightened regulatory scrutiny around the world could hurt business and dampen enthusiasm for digital assets.The top digital token declined as much as 6.4 percent to as low as $8,508 in New York trading, the lowest level in three weeks, according to Bloomberg data.There was also speculation that the trustee of failed exchange Mt. Gox was selling its Bitcoin to pay back creditors.Bitcoin’s drop is part of a broader selloff in the cryptocurrency market, which is currently worth around $380 billion, according to Coinmarketcap.com. That’s almost $100 billion less than it was worth a week ago. The Bloomberg Galaxy Crypto Index, which measures the performance of the largest digital tokens, fell as much as 14 percent.The market’s decline comes on the eve of Blockchain Week in New York, where thousands of boosters of crypto assets will gather for about two dozen events and conferences.Read More: Roubini Vs. Crypto, Round Two: This Time at a Blockchain Summit

2018-05-16T20:34:27.975Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-16/rising-bond-yields-don-t-matter-to-these-stocks
When it comes to rising bond yields, there are those who think the accompanying jump in corporate borrowing costs will doom stocks and those who think it won’t matter much because rising rates reflect a growing economy. The evidence just got stronger for those in the latter camp.Despite the headlines linking the recent malaise in major U.S. equity indexes to the jump in 10-year Treasury yields above 3 percent for the first time since early 2014, one key group of stocks keeps plowing ahead. On Wednesday, the Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Index, whose constituents range from Roto-Rooter owner Chemed Corp. to dollar-store operator Fred’s Inc., rose to an intraday record, extending its gain for the year to 6.12 percent.Given their smaller size and, presumably, their limited financing options relative to their larger brethren, these companies should suffer disproportionately from a rise in borrowing costs. But as we know from surveys such as the one from the National Federation of Independent Business, small business optimism is near all-time highs. Of course, most of these companies don’t have much of an international presence, so they aren’t being hurt by the dollar’s rebound. Still, it’s looking like the economy is on sound footing after a first-quarter slowdown.The economists with Bloomberg Intelligence say that bond yields have “considerable room” to rise before materially impacting the economy, given the wide gap between nominal growth and interest rates. That gap has rarely been wider than what has persisted over the past several years, BI Chief U.S. Economist Carl Riccadonna wrote in a research note Wednesday. As for the stock market’s little guys, the near-term outlook is bright: the projected earnings growth rate for small-cap companies next year is about 10 percentage points above that of S&P 500 members, BI equity strategists Kevin Kelly and Gina Martin Adams wrote in a research note Wednesday. AT LEAST JPMORGAN IS OPTIMISTICThe global synchronized economic recovery theme that fueled markets in 2017 may be in jeopardy. Japan’s government said Wednesday that its economy shrank in the first quarter at an annualized rate of 0.6 percent. A day earlier, Germany, the euro area’s economic engine, said its economy expanded just 0.3 percent in the first quarter, the slowest in more than a year and half the gain recorded in the fourth quarter. A Citigroup Inc. index shows that the incoming global economic data is falling below estimates at a degree not seen since March 2016. Nevertheless, the economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. are confident. “Although the geopolitical backdrop has turned more turbulent and uncertain, the global economy appears to be steaming ahead at a solid pace,” they wrote in a research note Tuesday. They predict that global GDP expanded at a 3.1 percent annualized rate in the first three months of the year for a sixth straight quarter. “This combination of sustained strength and stability is rare,” they wrote. “The economy has managed this feat just two other times in the past three decades.” They forecast the global economy will accelerate to a 4 percent annualized rate this quarter.A NEW EURO CRISIS?The focus of the bond market shifted Wednesday from the jump in 10-year Treasury yields to Italy, where politics threaten to upend the world’s fourth-biggest debt market. Italian 10-year government bond yields soared 16 basis points to 2.12 percent Wednesday, the highest since October, and two-year yields turned positive. What spooked bond investors were comments by League lawmaker Armando Siri to La7 television on Wednesday that the anti-immigrant League and the anti-establishment Five Star Movement are discussing a 250 billion euro ($300 billion) write-off of Italian from the European Central Bank. League economic adviser Claudio Borghi told reporters later there is no proposal to cancel part of Italy’s debt in the draft program. He said there is “simply the request for a change in accounting rules” so that securities bought by the ECB would not impact the debt-gross domestic product ratio, adding the request would apply to all EU countries. Italy has about $2.3 trillion of debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “This is all fairly disruptive stuff for Italian bonds,” said Jason Simpson, a strategist at Societe Generale SA, told Bloomberg News. “The markets had been assuming that they would tone down some of their more radical views.” The FTSE MIB benchmark stock index fell as much as 2.8 percent, the most since January 2017. Even the euro took a hit, with the Bloomberg Euro Index dropping as much as 0.63 percent to its lowest since December.SIGNS OF HOPEThere’s no shortage of hand-wringing these days over the state of emerging markets and whether a crisis is brewing after the MSCI EM Currency Index dropped to its lowest level of the year. No less than Harvard professor Carmen Reinhart said Wednesday that mounting debt loads, weakening terms of trade, rising global interest rates and stalling growth make EM worse off now than the 2008 global financial crisis. For one day, at least, those worries were put to rest. Argentina’s peso headed for its biggest two-day rally on record after the government and central bank intervened in currency markets and sold securities to tame growing anxiety in its markets. Argentina’s government sold about $3 billion of peso-denominated bonds and the central bank rolled over about $27 billion of expiring short-term notes on Tuesday, suggesting that investors are still hungry for Argentine assets, according to Bloomberg News’s Andres R. Martinez. The government is still moving forward with a standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund that may make $30 billion in financing available. South Africa sold $2 billion of Eurobonds in what Manulife Asset Management and Rand Merchant Bank said was evidence of investors’ faith in the country’s new leadership. The Turkish lira reversed a drop to a record low after the central bank said it was monitoring markets and would take necessary steps, a sign policy makers are getting closer to action to stem a rout in that country’s currency.LUMBER SOARSDespite rising interest rates, homebuilders are fond of saying that what really drives their business is consumer confidence. The data seem to be bearing that out. Government figures released Wednesday showed that housing starts came in at a 1.287 million rate in April, keeping it near a record high. So, then, what accounts for the steep 18 percent drop this year in the Bloomberg Americas Home Builders Index? Perhaps it’s concern about profit margins. The price of lumber, a key material in the construction of houses, hit another record high this week amid a confluence of import tariffs, transport bottlenecks and strong housing demand. Futures jumped 1.62 percent Wednesday to $629 per 1,000 board feet on the Chicago Board of Trade. That’s a 75 percent increase over the past 12 months, a bigger gain than any of the raw materials tracked by the Bloomberg Commodity Index, according to Bloomberg News’s Jen Skerritt. The lumber rally picked up steam after the U.S. in November imposed average import duties of 21 percent on Canadian shipments of timber following a years-long trade dispute. Rail delays in Canada have left piles of lumber stacked at sawmills because of a lack of transport capacity.TEA LEAVESOne of the more interesting stories in the global currency market of late has been the weakness in Mexico’s peso. It’s been a roller-coaster ride for the currency ever since Donald Trump was elected President of the U.S. in November 2016. The peso initially took a big tumble before rallying much of last year and then reversing those gains late in 2017, only to strengthen in the first quarter. But this week, the peso dropped to its weakest level since March 2016 amid growing concern that Mexico’s next president is likely to be a populist firebrand that investors fear. This makes Thursday’s central bank meeting all the more important. Policy makers aren’t likely to raise interest rates out of concern of roiling the economy at a delicate time, just weeks before voters go to the polls. But what they are likely to do is sound a hawkish tone in an effort to drum up demand in the peso as a way of fighting inflation brought on by the currency's recent weakness and higher oil prices.DON'T MISS Companies Can’t Hold the Line on U.S. Wages Much Longer: Tim DuyThe Stock Market’s Lifeboat May Be Sinking: Stephen GandelSomething Remains Rotten at the Heart of the Euro: Mark GilbertErdogan Throws Gasoline Onto a Raging Fire: Ferdinando GiuglianoMatt Levine’s Money Stuff: High-Frequency Trading for Bitcoins This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Robert Burgess at bburgess@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Beth Williams at bewilliams@bloomberg.net

2018-05-14T13:30:00.855Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/gemini-gives-boost-to-privacy-coin-zcash-as-exchange-expands
The battle to bring secrecy to cryptocurrencies is heating up.ZCash, vying with Monero to become the dominant “privacy coin,” will start trading May 22 on Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss’s Gemini exchange, after their venue won approval from the New York State Department of Financial Services to handle the token. Gemini, which announced the move Monday, also was approved to trade Litecoin and Bitcoin Cash.“Part of the reason a coin like Zcash has a smaller market cap is because people are not sure if regulators will ever get comfortable with this type of technology," Cameron Winklevoss said in a phone interview. “Today demonstrates that through education and collaboration and with the right controls in place, regulators can get comfortable with privacy technology."Zcash price has jumped as much as 26 percent , according to CoinMarketCap.com. The coin has a market capitalization of about $1.2 billion. Litecoin. gained 12 percent, while Bitcoin Cash increased about 1 percent."This is a major step that contradicts what most all cryptocurrency industry observers were expecting," Zooko Wilcox, founder of the Zcash Co., said in a phone interview.Coins such as ZCash and Monero use various methods to anonymize transactions, after analytics firms got better at tracking people who use Bitcoin and other popular tokens. Backers say the goal is to protect privacy, though some coins have also proven attractive to hackers and extortionists.— With assistance by David Scheer

2018-05-14T21:20:58.813Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/u-s-must-move-quickly-on-ether-status-cftc-s-quintenz-says
Federal agencies should quickly clarify the legal status of Ether as industry players clamor to list derivatives tied to the world’s second-most traded cryptocurrency, a Republican financial regulator said.Brian Quintenz, a commissioner on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said Monday that exchanges have "expressed interest" in listing Ether derivatives. Quintenz said staff at the CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission have been meeting about whether Ether is a security that falls under the SEC’s jurisdiction. The CFTC has said cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin are commodities and the regulator oversees its derivatives."There are a lot of big issues to sort out," Quintenz told reporters after a speech at the Consensus industry conference in New York, referring to Ether’s status. "We’re sorting them out, but I don’t have a timeline. I wouldn’t say days, but I wouldn’t say months," he said, referring to how long off a decision on Ether may be.The CFTC and the SEC have been sorting out the jurisdictional issues around virtual currencies for months as the global craze has prompted hundreds of new listings. The SEC has said that many initial coin offerings are actually unregistered securities, while the CFTC allowed Bitcoin futures to begin trading last December on exchanges run by CME Group Inc. and Cboe Global Markets Inc. CME said on Monday that it created real-time and daily reference price indexes for Ether, fueling speculation that the exchange will seek to list futures on the cryptocurrency.The status of Ether has become the focus of intense debate and speculation in recent weeks. While it originally launched as an ICO, the currency’s backers argue that it no longer should be considered a security, in part, because its now held by so many different people for different purposes.QuickTake: U.S. Crypto Regulatory Fight Has Everything But RulesIf the SEC were to classify a large cryptocurrency like Ether as a security its price could plunge, costing retail investors who have been piling in since last year. That’s because none of the biggest U.S.-based cryptocurrency trading platforms are registered with the SEC as securities exchanges."The market needs some certainty and some clarity in our space," Quintenz said. "Exchanges and the market itself are demanding a product" tied to Ether, he added.— With assistance by Eric Lam

2018-05-14T10:00:00.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/crypto-regulators-vs-lobbyists-is-dc-shirts-and-skins-quicktake
A chunk of Washington has been working to figure out what to make of cryptocurrencies. For some, the question is how to regulate the digital assets; for others, it’s how to cash in on them by influencing the debate. Lawyers and lobbyists have reinvented themselves and new trade associations have sprouted up across town. But Congress has been reluctant to pass new rules, financial regulators are still sorting out jurisdiction and the White House has yet to weigh in forcefully. That’s left confusion and legal risks for U.S issuers and investors. Here are some of the key policy questions:It depends which agency you ask. The nation’s main swaps regulator, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, has since 2014 defined virtual currencies as commodities and has asserted jurisdiction over their derivatives. Tax authorities consider them property for tax purposes. But all eyes in the crypto world are on the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC has said many coins are likely unregistered securities that violate the law, but hasn’t weighed in on specific currencies or introduced a bright-line test. Officials at the SEC and the CFTC, which thus far has focused on Bitcoin, meet regularly to sort out policy and jurisdictional issues. Meanwhile, the Treasury Department says firms must comply with its anti-money laundering rules under the Bank Secrecy Act.Many in industry have complained that the lack of regulatory clarity is stunting innovation, but many are also lobbying against regulations because it could hit their business models. The standard test for whether something is a security is whether investors are pooling money in a common enterprise in the expectation of profits from the work of others. Crypto promoters say that doesn’t fit the realities of digital coins well, but the SEC hasn’t provided a new test for whether tokens are securities or not, and hasn’t so far agreed to industry calls for a "safe harbor." The regulator also hasn’t blessed any new type of crypto asset.No, the issue is less gray for Bitcoin, the world’s most-traded virtual coin. That’s because unlike many cryptocurrencies, Bitcoin wasn’t initially used to raise money for a specific purpose or company. That, plus it’s relatively dispersed -- global ownership appears to make American regulators comfortable that it isn’t legally a "security."Through a lot of meetings. SEC and CFTC officials are trying to work out these issues, and a Treasury Department-led council of financial regulators has formed a working group. The upshot has been enforcement actions against crypto players alleged to be involved in wrongdoing, a rash of subpoenas to companies seen as operating in the gray area and stern warnings from SEC Chairman Jay Clayton to lawyers and accountants facilitating potentially sketchy deals. With the absence of a national strategy, states have also stepped in, creating another web of rules.Lobbying a lot, and doing even more to sell their wares. Firms raised about $12 billion in initial coin offerings through the first quarter of 2018. Many did so by assuring investors they were selling so-called utility tokens that were not technically securities, because they were designed to be used for goods and services once the startup being funded came into operation. Other firms are selling so-called security tokens, which attempt to comply with securities laws, by limiting sales to wealthy investors. Others are selling agreements tobuy future tokens, known as SAFTs.A lot of money. If the SEC were to classify a large cryptocurrency like Ether as a security its price could plunge, costing retail investors who have been piling in since last year. That’s because none of the biggest U.S.-based cryptocurrency trading platforms are registered with the SEC as securities exchanges. Offering only Bitcoin and un-listing other cryptos could hurt the exchanges’ trading revenue and hit those coins’ prices as fewer people will be able to trade them. Stricter rules could also cause this source of funding for startups to dry up in the U.S., and for firms to seek friendlier jurisdictions.It could be a long while. U.S. regulators haven’t set a specific deadline to make a policy determination on cryptocurrencies, so it might be that institutions pushing to trade these assets, for example in ether futures or ETFs, will help clear up their status. Even if U.S. regulators did sort out jurisdictional questions around what is a security, lawsuits would certainly follow. In general, American regulators have taken a less aggressive stance than some nations where trading has been outlawed, and businesses have been raided. But, without clear rules, it may that for the foreseeable future cryptocurrency policy will be made largely by looking at whom regulators sue for violating long-standing rules.

2018-05-10T14:21:54.905Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-10/bitcoin-to-the-moon-refrain-grows-louder-as-enthusiasts-gather
Fundstrat Global Advisors, the research firm known for its bullish Bitcoin bets, is at it again with the second forecast in a week leading up to one of the world’s biggest cryptocurrency conferences.One Bitcoin could be worth around $36,000 by the end of 2019, Fundstrat’s Sam Doctor wrote in a report for clients Thursday, noting that the value of the top digital token could range from $20,000 to $64,000. It traded around $9,300 on Thursday. The researcher’s call was based in part on the notion that improving cryptocurrency mining economics support price appreciation.“Bitcoin miners verify and process transactions, supporting the network in exchange for mining rewards and transaction fees,” Fundstrat said. “We argue that the Price/Miner’s Breakeven Cost multiple has proven a reliable long-term support level, and further, that the likely trajectory of future mining infrastructure growth should underpin Bitcoin price appreciation into year-end 2019.”Fundstrat’s latest call comes three days after managing partner Tom Lee predicted the price of Bitcoin will rally during Consensus, a major virtual-currency conference next week in Manhattan that is expected to draw more than 6,500 attendees. At the time, Fundstrat estimated that the top digital token will cost $25,000 by the end of this year, though its projections have varied substantially over time. The researchers forecast in January that Bitcoin would be worth $125,000 by 2022.— With assistance by Luke Kawa

2018-05-09T09:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-09/bunkers-for-the-wealthy-are-said-to-hoard-10-billion-of-bitcoin
Behind the guards, the blast doors and down corridors of reinforced concrete, sit the encrypted computer servers -- connected to nothing -- that hold keys to a vast digital fortune.Argentine entrepreneur Wences Casares has spent the past several years persuading Silicon Valley millionaires and billionaires that Bitcoin is the global currency of the future, that they need to buy some, and that he’s the man to safeguard it. His startup, Xapo, has built a network of underground vaults on five continents, including one in a decommissioned Swiss military bunker.Wences CasaresIn the rarefied world of wealth management, Xapo is known for a client list studded with family offices, and for occasionally letting a journalist peek into a stronghold to write about its security. But one secret has proven elusive: how much digital cash does it really hold?Two Xapo clients said it houses roughly $10 billion of Bitcoin. Another person close to the venture called the figure an accurate approximation. Bitcoin’s price, after all, is hardly steady.Even in the colorful world of crypto the cache is remarkable -- amounting to about 7 percent of the global Bitcoin supply. It would mean Xapo, just 4 years old, has more “deposits” than 98 percent of the roughly 5,670 banks in the U.S. But as a custodian it’s regulated differently. The Swiss subsidiary is overseen by the self-regulating Financial Services Standards Association, which audits members to ensure they comply with anti-money-laundering rules. Xapo serves U.S. customers through a Delaware corporation that’s registered with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network and is licensed in several states.The outsize holdings underscore the faith that Casares -- a serial entrepreneur nicknamed “Patient Zero” for stirring Silicon Valley’s interest in Bitcoin -- has garnered among his acolytes and at major crypto investment firms, such as Grayscale and CoinShares.“Everyone who isn’t keeping keys themselves is keeping them with Xapo,” said Ryan Radloff of CoinShares, which has more than $500 million of Bitcoin stored at Xapo. “You couldn’t pay me to keep it with a bank.”Xapo’s vault in SwitzerlandSee also: Buffett, Gates are latest Bitcoin critics, halting $10,000 PushXapo’s billionaire backers include LinkedIn Corp. co-founder Reid Hoffman and former Wall Street trader Mike Novogratz, who’s in the process of setting up his own cryptocurrency merchant bank. Their bet is that Bitcoin is here to stay, and so is its biggest scourge, theft.The first rule of owning Bitcoin is to securely keep your private key -- the code that lets you spend your coins. If thieves get it, they can loot your holdings in an instant, with no hope of recovery. Putting keys on a device connected to the Internet is both convenient and perilous: Hackers have proven adept at obtaining them from afar.The most popular alternative is called cold storage, keeping the key in an offline device such as a thumb drive. But risks remain: Hackers have also proven adept at setting traps on computers to access cold-storage devices the moment they’re online. More traditional criminals have committed home invasions and kidnappings. Some Bitcoin tycoons have resorted to hiding their identities, fortifying their homes and studying self-defense.Xapo’s solution is to bury a cold-storage device in a mountainside and layer on electronic safeguards.“They’re the first folks who recognized custodial and security functions would be key,” said Hoffman, whose venture capital firm Greylock Partners led a $20 million investment in Xapo in 2014, a couple of years after Casares persuaded him to buy his first Bitcoin. “He made the pitch in the morning and in the afternoon I called him with an offer.”At Xapo, retrieving Bitcoin from the vault takes about two days. The company verifies a client’s identity and authenticates the request before manually signing the transactions with private keys from multiple vault locations. Approval from three separate vaults is required for any transactions to be authorized. The company also offers customers a trading desk to buy and sell Bitcoin and created the first Bitcoin debit card to spend it.Casares, 44, declined to comment for this story. After a flurry of publicity at Xapo’s launch, he has drawn big audiences at crypto conferences but largely shunned media interviews.Read more: ‘Cryptolandia’ blockchain pioneers take root in hipster BrooklynYet his persuasiveness is legendary. His evangelizing of Bitcoin is so pervasive in Silicon Valley that when Hoffman asked his family office to buy some, his banker asked when he’d spoken to Casares. Xapo’s advisers now include former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, ex-Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Officer John Reed and Visa International founder Dee Hock.Such salesmanship has been critical to Xapo’s success. First Block Capital, Canada’s first fully registered crypto firm, picked Xapo as its custodian after months of due diligence, including touring the Swiss vault.“Every part of their DNA is geared to security,” said Sean Clark, First Block’s founder, who noted the vault’s fingerprint scanners were equipped with a pulse reader to prevent amputated hands from being used. “Whenever we make big transfers they FaceTime us, we have duress words, if it’s big enough they’ll fly out to see us.”Xapo is doubling down on its pursuit of institutional clients, with President Ted Rogers enlisting Peter Najarian, a veteran of emerging-market trading at UBS Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, to oversee outreach to investors including pension funds, private banks, assets managers, family offices and hedge funds.The perceived lack of an institutional-grade custodial solution for Bitcoin has been one of the sticking points for many money managers looking to try the asset class. Xapo says its already offering precisely that solution. If it persuades them of its merits, the implications for Bitcoin would be profound.“A fraction of that kind of institutional money flowing into the space would be a tidal wave,” Najarian said.Read more: Tracking the Crypto Bulls and BearsCasares has made acceptance of Bitcoin his life’s mission. Born to sheep ranchers in Argentina’s remote Patagonia region, he experienced the impact of inflation throughout his youth.That drove him to build a series of fintech startups that made him millions before he encountered Bitcoin. He sold 75 percent of Patagon, a Latin American financial-services website, for $529 million in 2000 and digital wallet startup Lemon for $43 million 13 years later to focus on crypto. By then, he was already a big holder of Bitcoin.“I am personally allocating a percentage of my net worth to this that is borderline irresponsible because I believe in it so much,” Casares told Lemon board member Eric O’Brien, according to “Digital Gold,” a book by Nathaniel Popper. Two years ago, he joined the board of PayPal Holdings Inc.Bitcoin’s meteoric rise in recent years has spurred the proliferation of rival currencies, such as Ethereum and Ripple that also have multibillion-dollar valuations. Yet Xapo only safeguards Bitcoin because of Casares’s belief that it alone will succeed. Such dogmatism has seen Xapo turn away customers looking to store rival currencies.Other purists say ventures such as Xapo have no place in the Bitcoin ecosystem, slowing down what’s supposed to be a seamless transfer.Xapo’s top brass wrestle with that paradox, too.“It’s a subject we discuss a lot, and we believe Bitcoin won’t reach the mainstream if people have to hold their own private keys,” Rogers said. “It’s a pretty high hurdle technically to be your own bank with lots of security.”— With assistance by Yalman Onaran

2018-05-10T09:09:14.671Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-10/de-beers-tracks-first-gems-from-mine-to-shop-using-blockchain
The world’s biggest diamond producer says it’s tracked its first diamonds all the way from the mine to jewelry retailers using the technology behind bitcoin.De Beers, which is piloting a scheme using blockchain to create a virtual ledger of diamond sales, said that 100 high-value stones were tracked through the cutting, polishing and manufacturing process to a final retailer. The company plans to roll out the platform later this year.The technology allows De Beers to show transactions to all participants while keeping their identities and the values hidden. It is meant to give buyers confidence that the stones they are buying aren’t fakes or so-called conflict diamonds -- gems used to finance war, terrorism or tyranny. It could also reassure bankers, who’ve been stung by fraud in a business cloaked in secrecy.The program, known as Tracr, gives each stone a unique ID that stores diamond characteristics such as weight, color and clarity. De Beers says that information can prove the provenance as the stone moves from hand to hand, from rough to polished.“The Tracr project team has demonstrated that it can successfully track a diamond through the value chain, providing asset-traceability assurance in a way that was not possible before,” De Beers Chief Executive Officer Bruce Cleaver said in a statement. “This is a significant breakthrough.”

2018-05-14T20:30:20.701Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-14/bond-traders-get-a-peek-of-the-apocalypse
Remember how last year was all about the global synchronized economic recovery? This year may be all about the global synchronized bond slump.From Japan to Frankfurt, London and New York, the market for government debt securities was a sea of red Monday as European and U.S. central bankers up their plans to "normalize" monetary policy, which is code for raising interest rates and cutting back on their debt purchases.Although the U.S. Federal Reserve has been doing just that since late 2016, the bond market has largely been able to get by because the European Central Bank and Bank of Japan pressed on with their extraordinary easy money policies. But Monday's action shows what may be in store for bond traders after ECB policy maker Francois Villeroy de Galhau told Bloomberg News that he expects bond purchases to end this year and an interest-rate increase could follow in a matter of “some quarters, but not years.”“We will probably give additional guidance for the end of the year for the timing of the rate hike and the contingencies,” he said in a Bloomberg TV interview with Francine Lacqua. German 10-year bond yields rose 5.2 basis points to 0.61 percent, the biggest increase since April. Yields on similar-maturity bonds of Italy, Spain and France rose by similar amounts. Even yields in the U.S. jumped. Monday's sell-off will worsen the pain suffered by bond investors this year. The Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate Bond Index is down 0.75 percent this year as of Friday, with all but three of 19 major categories showing losses for May. "I don't believe Villeroy's comments should be a surprise to anyone, but it seems to be a gentle reminder of what is to come," Peter Boockvar, the chief investment officer at Bleakley Financial Group, noted in a research report. "My worry about what is to come for European bonds has been made clear many times" but even so yields on the continent remain "mind boggling" at such low levels, Boockvar wrote.STOCKS GET A NEW TAILWINDThe S&P 500 Index rose to its highest level in two months, and at least part of that may be due to investors becoming more confident in the quality of corporate profits. Recall that at the start of the current earnings season in early April, most investors knew that U.S. companies would post blockbuster results, thanks to a reduction in corporate tax rates. And they have, with earnings per share for members of the S&P 500 rising the most since 2010. The skeptics were more focused on what they said would be lackluster top-line,  or revenue, growth. But according to the equity strategists at Bloomberg Intelligence, "sales are now beating expectations broadly and strongly." They note that earnings estimates for the rest of the year are moving up at an accelerated pace, "no longer due just to the tax overhaul or margins, but largely because of improving top-line prospects." Sales growth is on track to top 6 percent, more than 1 percentage point better than expected, and 10 of the 11 sectors are posting better-than-forecast revenue figures. "Until the last two weeks, strong earnings results were overshadowed by a skepticism that strength was purely driven by tax savings and will fade heavily into 2019," Bloomberg Intelligence strategists Gina Martin Adams and Peter Chung wrote in a research note Monday. "Comparisons will still be tough to match, but growing top-line confidence can go a long way to improving stock sentiment."GAS PRICES ARE NO DETERRENT The American Automobile Association doesn't think the highest gasoline prices since 2014 will stop Americans from hitting the road for the unofficial start to summer on Memorial Day weekend. The group, better known as AAA, projects road travel will rise 4.7 percent over the long holiday weekend in late May, reports Bloomberg News' Laura Blewitt. Even though gasoline prices are up about 50 cents a gallon to $2.87 from May of last year, fuel costs aren’t high enough to deter travel, according to Bill Sutherland, senior vice president of AAA Travel and Publishing. “A strong economy and growing consumer confidence are giving Americans all the motivation they need,” he said. Some of the research backs up AAA. DataTrek Research found that Google searches for “vacation” were running 10 percent above last year’s levels in April, the last full month for such data, while searches for “rental car” are up slightly, a promising economic signal going into summer.  Also, searches for “cheap vacation” are lower than last year by 12 percent and 48 percent below the peak in 2010. "As that speaks to consumers’ desire to spend, we chalk it up as another positive economic sign," Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek, wrote in a rsearch note Monday. POLITICS MATTERLatin America is in trouble. That's the assessment of foreign-exchange traders, who have pummeled the region's currencies over the past four weeks. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan index tracking Latin America's currencies has dropped 7.65 percent since April 18, compared with a decline of just 1.82 percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets Currency Index. The collapse in Argentina's peso the last couple of weeks due to the inability of the nation to control inflation is well known, but take a look at Brazil's real. The currency on Monday dropped to 3.6396 per dollar, its weakest level since May 2016. It has lost more than 13 percent of its value since late January. The main reason for the weakness is politics. The leading market-friendly candidate in Brazil’s presidential race is losing ground among voters, while a leftist contender is advancing, according to Bloomberg News' Mario Sergio Lima. Former Sao Paulo Governor Geraldo Alckmin, who is one of the investor favorites, dropped to 5.3 percent support from 8.6 percent in March, according to a survey carried out by polling firm MDA and released Monday. Former Ceara Governor Ciro Gomes, who has pledged to expropriate oil fields, rose to 9 percent from 8.1 percent. A weekly central bank survey published Monday showed that analysts slashed their 2018 economic growth estimates to 2.51 percent from 2.70 percent, the biggest cut to the 2018 forecast in more than 2 years.CRYPTO LAMBOS FAIL TO IMPRESSThe movers and shakers in the world of cryptocurrencies descended on midtown Manhattan Monday for the Consensus 2018 conference. Lamborghinis, the flashy cars that symbolize conspicuous consumption among Bitcoin true-believers, roared through the streets near the Hilton Midtown, the conference headquarters, according to Bloomberg News' Lily Katz. While an impressive showing, they did little to juice demand for cryptocurrencies. While Bitcoin did manage to rise from a three-week low, the MVIS CryptoCompare Digital Assets 10 Index that tracks the performance of the 10 largest and most liquid digital assets fell. Perhaps that’s due to come comments made by Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard, who said in a speech at the conference that “cryptocurrencies are creating drift toward a non-uniform currency in the U.S., a state of affairs that has existed historically but was disliked and eventually replaced.” Bullard added that “currencies have to be reliable and hold their value” which “is probably why government backing has been important historically, combined with a stable monetary policy that promotes stability of the currency." None of that seems to apply to cryptocurrencies.TEA LEAVESThe consensus is that the first-quarter slowdown in the U.S. economic expansion was just a blip and that growth this quarter should trend back toward the high 2 percent range. Data this week, starting with the monthly retail sales report for April on Tuesday, may determine whether the optimism for a rebound is warranted. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for the government to say that retail sales growth slowed to 0.3 percent last month from 0.6 percent in March. So-called retail control-group sales – which are used to calculate gross domestic product and exclude food services, auto dealers, building-materials stores and gasoline stations – are forecast to be unchanged at 0.4 percent. A broad advance would indicate that bigger take-home pay from the recently enacted tax cuts is more than compensating for the recent pickup in fuel costs, according to Bloomberg News' Shobhana Chandra. However, higher receipts that are concentrated at service stations would indicate gasoline purchases are eating into discretionary sales at other merchants.DON'T MISSWhy Stocks Don’t Reflect Improving Economy: Mohamed A. El-ErianEmerging Markets Watch Fed, Not ‘Decoupled’ at All: Daniel MossGold's Beauty Contest May Still Have Legs: David FicklingOPEC's Output Deal Will Shrug Off Iran Sanctions: Julian LeeMatt Levine's Money Stuff: Everyone Wants to See Green in Bonds This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Robert Burgess at bburgess@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Beth Williams at bewilliams@bloomberg.net

2018-05-09T14:33:17.008Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-09/crypto-hedge-fund-pantera-says-returns-outpaced-bitcoin-in-april
Bitcoin had a pretty good April. Pantera Capital had an even better one.The hedge fund’s Digital Asset Fund, which was launched in November and includes a number of different virtual currencies, surged 46 percent last month, compared with a 31 percent gain registered by the biggest digital coin, Pantera said in an investor letter Wednesday, citing “dynamic trading” for the strong performance.“As we improve our order execution our slippage and market impact will decrease and so will our time to put new positions on, which should substantially improve performance even further,” the fund founded by Dan Morehead said in the letter.The spring rebound follows a rough winter, when the Menlo Park, California-based firm’s Digital Asset Fund posted three consecutive months of losses as Bitcoin and other digital currencies pared astronomical gains from late last year.Fund rebounds after lackluster first-quarter Source: Pantera Capital“I believe that a large fraction of the downward pressure in Q1 was unintended tax selling – people who were surprised when their accountant told them how much they owed in taxes,” the letter said. “They then had to sell crypto to pay the bill.”The $1 billion crypto hedge fund has about 10 percent of its investments in Bitcoin, Morehead told Bloomberg in an April 26 interview.Pantera also announced Wednesday that it has hired Ryan Davis, chief financial officer of Echelon Asset Management, as its new CFO. Morehead is chief executive.— With assistance by Luke Kawa, and Erik Schatzker

2018-05-10T11:58:57.305Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-10/ritholtz-s-reads-data-factories-bitcoin-hoarders-and-lebron
My almost Russian-oligarch-free morning train reads:What are you reading?How Putin’s oligarchs funneled millions into GOP campaignsSource: Dallas NewsWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Barry Ritholtz at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Brooke Sample at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-05-15T10:49:13.123Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-15/bullshit-jobs-by-david-graeber-review
If you voted for Bernie Sanders, have sea-punk green hair, and wear a pin declaring “Capitalism Is the Crisis,” you may already be familiar with David Graeber’s writings on the takeover of our lives by bulls--- jobs.Graeber, an anthropology professor at the London School of Economics, was a mover and shaker in the Occupy Wall Street movement and is well known for his approachable critiques of neoliberal free market ideology. His new book, Bullshit Jobs: A Theory (Simon & Schuster; $27), sprang from a shorter essay he published in 2013 in a feminist-activist magazine called Strike, which quickly struck a nerve. (One that  kept thrumming: on a Monday morning in 2015, an anonymous group plastered the London Underground with quotations from the writings.)“Huge swathes of people spend their days performing jobs they secretly believe do not really need to be performed,” Graeber writes. The rise of automation has meant that fewer humans are needed in manufacturing and farming, but instead of this freeing up our time, we’ve seen those jobs replaced by “the ballooning of … the administrative sector up to and including the creation of whole new industries like financial services or telemarketing, or the unprecedented expansion of sectors like corporate law, academic and health administration, human resources and public relations.”Very loosely, a bulls--- job, by Graeber’s definition, is one that could be erased from the Earth and no one would be worse off. It’s also phenomenological. If you feel your job is bulls---, it probably is.Any corporate lawyer or health-care services administrator who’s reading this and thinking, “Wait a minute, serving my client’s needs is necessary and fulfilling,” is going to disagree with a lot of this book, but even those readers will be hard-pressed not to admit that inventing and maintaining many of the unpleasant aspects of daily life requires a lot of work hours that would be better spent elsewhere.For instance, consider the poor souls whose work entails implementing the ubiquitous feature of automatic phone systems: when you call about a bill or service issue, you have to speak your name into a computer system; once you’ve articulated “speak to an agent” some 16 times to said computer system, waited 20 additional minutes, and finally reached a human being, you immediately have to provide the same information you already gave the system.Meanwhile, says Graeber, practitioners in the fields that directly benefit mankind or offer personal fulfillment, such as teaching, caregiving, waiting, writing, performing carpentry, or making art,  are (with the exception of some doctors) poorly paid and secretly resented by those forced to waste their time pursuing a paycheck. Being occupied for long hours of the day fulfilling tasks that, at best, are useless and, at worst, hurt others—building the aforementioned phone systems, foisting software on budget-starved elementary schools, creating paperwork morasses for the homeless—is “a profound psychological violence” that causes anxiety and depression. Basically, our collective soul is being crushed by a rise in what Graeber sees as make-work.His essay was such a hit that polling agencies in Britain and the Netherlands tested his hypothesis. A third of respondents in both countries answered negatively to the question: “Does your job make a meaningful contribution to the world?”Armed with this affirmation, Graeber sent out a request on Twitter for descriptions of bulls--- jobs and received 250 thoughtful, detailed responses. These make up the anthropological basis for the book and are delightful in their comic darkness.Here’s “Greg” describing his job as a designer of digital display advertising that, he came to believe—after reading that no one clicks on banner ads—were a scam: “High-paying clients generally want to reproduce their TV commercials within the banner ads and demand complex storyboards with multiple ‘scenes’ and mandatory elements. Automotive clients would come in and demand that we use Photoshop to switch the steering wheel position or fuel tank cap on an image the size of a thumbnail.”“Eric” describes a job at a large design firm that was “pure liquid bulls---” with the title of Interface Administrator: “The firm was a partnership … [and the owners,] being unbelievably competitive fortysomething public-school boys, they often tried to outcompete one another to win bids, and on more than one occasion, two different [teams] had found themselves arriving at the same client’s office to pitch work and having to hastily combine their bids in the parking lot of some dismal business park.”“That one person’s time can belong to someone else is actually quite peculiar”Eric was supposed to set up a “super collaborative” interface that would keep everyone on the same page and prevent this from happening. “I should have realized that it was one partner’s idea that no one else actually wanted. … Why else would they be paying a 21-year-old history graduate with no IT experience to do this? They’d bought the cheapest software they could find, from a bunch of absolute crooks, so it was buggy, prone to crashing, and looked like a Windows 3.1 screen saver. The entire workforce was paranoid that it was designed to monitor their productivity, record their keystrokes, or flag that they were torrenting porn on the company internet, and so they wanted nothing to do with it.”There was little for Eric to do because he couldn’t fix the system and no one wanted to deal with it, anyway. He grew desperate and depressed and, despite the evident failure of the system, had to convince his bosses to let him resign. “I was basically tasked with selling and managing a badly-functioning, unwanted turd,” he wrote to Graeber.This description might sum up the author’s view of the global economy and those tasked with (or conscripted into) maintaining it. One myth that these confessions debunk once and for all is that the private sector is more efficient than the public sector in its employment practices. While derisive phrases such as “close enough for government work” have long been part of our vocabulary, these days corporate jobs, newfangled finance vehicles, and tech startups equally conjure associations of time-wasting in the form of bulls--- managementese, hollow strategizing, and annoying software. It’s easy to envision employees working to death to produce morally dubious profits for upper management, inventing or selling things no one really wants or needs, or listlessly spending hours seeking the empty solace provided by  internet distractions and social media. Graeber, with this book, wants to and largely succeeds at solidifying our ambient low-level, collective sense  that “economies around the world have, increasingly, become vast engines of producing nonsense.”Graeber writes that the only people who’ve ever argued with his basic premise are business owners, the people who are in charge of hiring and firing. He says he periodically receives “unsolicited communications” from such people, who insist that no one “would ever spend company money on an employee who wasn’t needed.” LOLOLOLOL. Sure, corporations and private equity amassers are always laying people off in the name of shareholder value, but, as Graeber mentions, that’s usually a felling of  workers who are actually productive while the top layers of overpaid, unnecessary management are the last to go. (Or, if they go, it’s with severance packages.)A post shared by Cabin Fever (@cabinfeverpunk) on Jan 6, 2015 at 2:07am PSTBuoyed by a sense of recognition, the reader happily follows Graeber in his fun attempts to categorize bulls--- jobs into Goons, Flunkies, Box Tickers, Duct Tapers, and Taskmasters, which inevitably bleed together into Complex Multiform Bulls--- Jobs. It’s funny, albeit painful, that we’ve gotten work so wrong and spend so much time at it.Graeber argues that the concept of selling off one’s time in increments is relatively new. Historically, he says, the idea “that one person’s time can belong to someone else is actually quite peculiar.” To the ancient Greeks, he claims, you were either a slave and your whole life was owned, or you sold a good (an eating utensil, food) that you created as you saw fit. He implicates the shift toward clock time in the Middle Ages as the culprit behind our collective acceptance of wage slavery. Whereas time was traditionally amorphous, determined by geographical distances or chemical transformations (as long as it takes for the bread to rise, the wheat to dry) clock towers and then pocket watches (disallowed in factories so bosses could cheat by meddling with the hour hands on clocks), turned time into discreet, barter-able chunks. Naturally, we’re built to work in bursts and then to celebrate and rest, just as Mother Nature ordained, not pace ourselves to produce at an even tempo for hours at a stretch, day after day, all week.It hardly matters if Graeber’s history is accurate. His best-selling Dept: The First 5,000 Years (Melville House, $22.99) garnered some controversy in this regard, with academics identifying myriad false claims—for instance, that Apple Inc. was started by former IBM engineers. The ideas alone are worth contemplating.But Graeber loses traction when he tries to explain why “it’s as if someone out there made up pointless jobs for the sake of making us all work,” or when he attempts to get a handle on how automation and technology have done the opposite of creating a lovely four-hour workday. His explanation hews to an argument that fits his politics: “Corporations are less and less about making, building, fixing, or maintaining things, and more and more about political processes of appropriating, distributing and allocating money and resources.”By positioning themselves as job creators and maneuvering the political system to laud any and all jobs, rather than asking if they’re meaningful or help society or the employees, “they” can maintain power indefinitely. (This would be Graeber’s ruling elite, the 1 percent targeted by the Occupy Movement.) But it requires manufacturing a lot of pointless duties, complex bureaucracies, elaborate financial vehicles. Graeber sees this as recreating medieval feudalism, with software and middle management instead of dukes, archdukes, weapons, and castles. It’s hard to get other people to see what you see needs to get done; it’s human nature to want to have things done your own wayIt’s not so much that I disagree, but it all gets into a “Why Capitalism? Because Capitalism!” tautology. Some of us know these elites, some of us are these elites, and most would agree that there’s more than enough moral failing to go around. But it’s still very hard to figure out why we keep creating bulls--- systems that leave many people exploited and spiritually empty (or worse).I used to get into an argument with a cleaning woman who worked for me because, although we’d agreed on an hourly rate, she would treat my house only as a job rate situation. She’d work fast and be what she considered done in three hours. I was paying her for four, so I’d ask her to stay and clean further (via telephone from my office job). She would demand to know why. She was talented at cleaning, and she wanted to use her skill to make more money in less time. I wanted her to chip away at additional projects each week, such as washing a few windows or cleaning dead bugs from light fixtures. From her point of view, I was trying to exert power over her, make her do bulls--- work in an already vastly unjust power structure; from my point of view, she was taking advantage of me, and my house wasn’t clean enough for my liking.A post shared by Marc (@untitled_user_774) on Oct 29, 2017 at 9:54am PDTThis cleaning person had survived a harrowing illegal crossing from Mexico at age 14 while I was born into a privileged demographic in the U.S., with dual citizenship in two wonderful countries. Given that, I was wrong and an entitled a--hole. In a better world, I’d have time to clean my own house; everyone would clean their own houses or live happily in their own filth.But when I read Graeber’s account of how a boss taught him and his fellow dishwashers to be less efficient at a restaurant job he held in his youth by yelling at them for washing the dishes as fast as possible and then loafing around, smoking, I sympathized with the boss. When you’re the one who owns or feels ownership over the endeavor, you think there’s always something more that needs doing. To you, it’s important. It’s hard to get other people to see what you see needs to get done; it’s human nature to want to have things done your own way. Sometimes Graeber reminds me of a 12-year-old who insists there’s no reason to clean up his or her room, while the parent knows that bugs, vermin, mental chaos, or depression could otherwise ensue.He does nail it when he writes that “much of the reason for the expansion of the bulls--- sector more generally is a direct result of the desire to quantify the unquantifiable,” but he’s fallen into the same trap. The tension at the heart of this book, of course, is that the writing of it is a bit of a bulls--- job. Graeber might even be hiding a crushed soul of his own.In his comfortable seat as a professor at an esteemed institution, musing amusedly about the mind-numbing hours most working people have to put in and put up with—even at jobs that have lively, meaningful moments—fits neatly in his category of “duct taping,” maybe also “flunky.”A post shared by Mathilde Platypus (@mathildeplatypus) on May 4, 2017 at 1:57pm PDTThe L.S.E. is publicly funded but also relies on alumni donations. (It’s known for graduating billionaires.) In other words, his salary is made possible by the people he accuses of being in charge of this bulls--- job-generating system. Why might they want to pay him? (Graeber loves the pedagogical  question structure.) By offering this cultural pacifier, which soothes by affirming people’s lonely suspicions, he’s doing only what the British version of The Office and Mike Judge’s masterpiece Office Space already have. And these diversions often just use up the little time we have left after work, restoring us only enough to return tomorrow.Graeber is also an activist, so he must be given some credit for not just honking off in an annoyingly self-satisfied tone; although he claims he’s not interested in suggesting policy (he is, after all, an anarchist), he does endorse Universal Basic Income as one solution.But he misses an opportunity to examine the other group of people who are trying to eliminate the bulls--- job cycle. This week, droves of Glocksters (Global Blockchain Hipsters) have descended on New York for the Ethereal Summit and Consensus 2018, conferences run by Consensys and CoinDesk Inc., which are companies trying to galvanize cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology. Many attendees are just Bitcoin bros who are or want to be rich, but a significant segment of crypto believers is persuaded that the blockchain will obviate the middleman, cut through the administrative morass generated by Graeber’s overlords, and offer the first pure form of state-free value exchange.It’s probably just another, even crazier layer of bulls---, but it’s becoming our civic duty to understand it, in case it is the turning point in human civilization we’re all hoping for.

2018-05-14T02:00:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-14/alrosa-steps-up-diamond-marketing-as-miner-eyes-more-polishing
Alrosa PJSC, the world’s largest diamond miner by output, is increasing its marketing efforts and targeting new opportunities in gem cutting at a time when the market is showing signs of starting to stabilize.The Russian firm, which typically hasn’t promoted stones outside Russia, last year contributed $25 million to the Diamond Producers Association for marketing and may increase sponsorship this year, Chief Executive Officer Sergey Ivanov said. Alrosa also plans to focus more on cutting premium stones and may consider buying Russia’s top polisher if it gets privatized.Alrosa has traditionally focused on rough-diamond mining but is gradually changing its business after Ivanov, 37, became CEO a year ago. One of the rare steps it has taken in the past year include traveling the world to promote the auction of five gems cut from a giant diamond. While the industry has struggled with stagnant consumer demand, the market benefited from a stronger-than-expected end to 2017."DPA basically started to work at the end of the fourth quarter," and this was in time for Christmas sales, Ivanov said in an interview in Moscow, referring to the association it established with De Beers and other miners in 2015. “The first-quarter sales were very good.”That helped Alrosa reduce its 18 million carats of inventories by 30 percent from the start of the year to a seven-year low, as well as raising average prices by several percent, the CEO said.As part of its promotion strategy, Alrosa is working with researchers to show that so-called fluorescent stones, which are often sold at a large discount and shunned by younger buyers, in many cases have better color and luster than normal gems, Ivanov said. Alrosa has “a lot” of such stones at its mines, he said. It’s also testing technology to mark its gems and may join De Beers’ project to use blockchain to track them as well as looking at other alike projects.In Russia, Alrosa plans a joint educational project with the Finance Ministry on synthetic and natural stones, Ivanov said. Russian tourists spend a lot on diamonds abroad and with the right marketing those sales may support domestic cutters, he said.Read more: Diamond trade turns to technology that keeps bitcoin anonymousAside from promotion, the Russian miner expects to focus on cutting stones weighing more than 1 carat because it’s not worth doing so with smaller gems in Russia. It will also boost polishing its unique stones and may team up with partners for polishing some of them, he said. The main stone from the Dynasty collection, which didn’t sell last year, is due to be sold this year, he said.There could be some resistance to the plans. Expanding into the polishing business has always been considered as a bad idea for Alrosa, Oleg Petropavlovskiy, an analyst at BCS Global Markets, said by phone.As part of its move into polishing, Alrosa may consider taking part in an auction for Kristall Production Corp., Ivanov said. Deputy Finance Minister Alexey Moiseev said in March that the government is considering privatizing Kristall, Alrosa’s biggest domestic client.Ivanov said there are some benefits of merging the businesses, though it depends on how the government takes into account things like debt and losses when it sets the price.“Kristall won’t add anything to Alrosa’s profit, but won’t hurt it too and will solve the government’s issue with the troubled gem polisher,” Petropavlovskiy said.

2018-05-08T14:39:08.861Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-08/putting-bitcoin-in-the-swaps-box
T+1 settlement.If I sell you a Bitcoin, what have I sold you? Is it a currency? A commodity? A financial asset? A security, even? Something new and different? There are tedious debates. I suppose you might find them interesting if you’re a philosopher of money, or of Bitcoin. But you might find them important—yet still tedious!—if you are a regulated financial institution thinking about trading Bitcoins. The regulations that apply to you contain lots of lists of things and what you can do to them, and you need to figure out where Bitcoin fits on those lists. You can do some things to securities, and other things to commodities, and still other things to currencies. What things can you do to Bitcoin?On the other hand, if I agree to give you a Bitcoin in a month, and you agree to give me the money for it in a month, now we are getting somewhere. Now we know what I’ve sold you. The name for it is a bit squishy—“forward” is conventional, “future” is a variant (normally applied to exchange-traded contracts), and “swap” is a good general term—but nonetheless the applicable U.S. regulatory regime is much better understood. It’s a swap, and it’s regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and if the relevant list of things says you can do stuff with swaps, then you can do exactly that stuff with Bitcoin swaps. (Unless Bitcoin is a security; securities-based swaps have their own regulatory regime.)Anyway the Intercontinental Exchange might start offering Bitcoin trading, or at least, one-day physically-settled Bitcoin swap trading:ICE has had conversations with other financial institutions about setting up a new operation through which banks can buy a contract, known as a swap, that will end with the customer owning Bitcoin the next day — with the backing and security of the exchange, according to the people familiar with the project.The swap contract is more complicated than an immediate trade of dollars for Bitcoin, even if the end result is still ownership of a certain amount of Bitcoin. But a swap contract allows the trading to come under the regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and to operate clearly under existing laws — something today’s Bitcoin exchanges have struggled to do.One-day physically-settled swaps! It sounds like a joke, a trick. We can sell you Bitcoins, but for regulatory purposes we have to wrap them in a plain brown paper bag called a “swap,” and you can’t open the bag until you leave the store. This does not solve all of the world’s categorization problems. If you’re a regulated institution that is allowed to own swaps, and you buy a Bitcoin swap, then you own a Bitcoin swap and that’s fine, but if it’s a one-day physically-settled swap, then the next day you own a Bitcoin, and you’re right back where you started from. It does, however, crucially, solve the exchange’s categorization problems: It’s offering swaps trading, so it can go to the CFTC for approval of its offering, its processes, etc. Not only that, but there is a long history of commodity exchanges offering trading in futures and also helping with physical settlement processes. Metals exchanges let customers trade metals futures contracts, and also regulate systems of warehouses to store the actual metal so that futures customers can take delivery. Once you’re a regulated exchange, you can start building a regulated system for holding and delivering and keeping track of the underlying stuff. Of course, when the underlying stuff is Bitcoin, there are some ironies there. For one thing, Bitcoin already has a system for holding and delivering and keeping track of itself. The point of Bitcoin is that it is a currency (asset, whatever) that doesn’t need any sort of third-party mechanism for storage or delivery: The Bitcoin blockchain is a decentralized ledger that keeps track of Bitcoins, and I can give you Bitcoins using that blockchain directly; a bank or exchange doesn’t need to be involved. But exchanges keep getting involved. (Separately, conventional financial exchanges keep talking about using blockchain technology to settle trades in stocks or bonds or whatever. I hope ICE will use a blockchain to keep track of its Bitcoin-swap trades, but not the Bitcoin blockchain.)Another irony is that advocates of blockchain technology in finance often talk about the magic of instant settlement. One advantage of being able to transact directly over the blockchain is that you can do the transaction at the same time you agree to do the transaction. You don’t need to do a trade on the exchange and then spend days tracking down a custodian to get it to send your stocks to your counterparty; you just do a trade on the blockchain and, by virtue of that trade, your counterparty has your stuff. But for Bitcoins, the exchanges will actually create a settlement delay. I and others often talk about the idea that cryptocurrency advocates are rebuilding the financial system from scratch, and keep discovering why the old financial system had features—reversibility of transactions, centralized custody, securities-registration rules, flexible monetary policy—that cryptocurrency enthusiasts initially rejected. Perhaps delayed settlement will be one of those features that gets reintroduced to cryptocurrency because it is so useful. But that's not what this looks like. This looks like reintroducing a feature of old-fashioned finance solely for dumb mechanical compliance with old rules. You have the one-day delay not because it serves any useful purpose, but because it lets you check a regulatory box to call your thing a swap.Also … will ICE build a warehouse to hold Bitcoins for its customers? Lots of exchanges have done that; a basic function of Bitcoin exchanges is to hold Bitcoins on behalf of their customers, rather than giving the customers the Bitcoins directly through the Blockchain. The problem is that there is a long and extremely consistent history of all those exchanges being hacked and having their Bitcoins stolen. If a giant regulated exchange like ICE—the parent company of the New York Stock Exchange—starts holding Bitcoins, it will be an irresistible target. If it does get hacked successfully, then that will be funny. (And a setback for Bitcoin trading among big institutions.) If it doesn’t, that will be funny in its way too. Bitcoin was designed by cryptographers to be secure and to supplant the regulated financial system; it’ll be funny if the way to securely hold Bitcoins turns out to be through the regulated financial system.Incidentally: When I sell you a share of stock, what have I sold you? Well, conventionally, we would say that I have sold you a share of stock. But actually, if I sell you a share of stock on the stock exchange, what happens is that I agree to give you that share of stock in two days, and you agree to give me the money for it in two days. (It was three days until recently.) No one calls this a “stock swap” (or forward or future). They just call it a stock trade; a common term is “regular-way settlement.” You need a longer delay to transform a stock sale into a stock swap/forward/future. Perhaps a one-day settlement delay is enough to turn a Bitcoin trade into a Bitcoin swap, but it does seem odd.Meanwhile in  Bitcoin futures.Have I apologized yet for how wrong I was about Bitcoin futures? In the weeks before Bitcoin futures started trading at Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc., a lot of people argued that Bitcoin futures would finally provide a convenient way to short Bitcoin, and that the shorts would rush in and deflate the price. Meanwhile I was galaxy-braining around being like “no no no you see this is a convenient way to buy Bitcoin, which was previously just as hard for careful conservative financial institutions as shorting it was, and so the introduction of Bitcoin futures will make the price go up.” And then the futures started trading and I took a victory lap, like, five minutes into the trading session, when Bitcoin hit a new record high.And then it fell and has never recovered; Bitcoin is worth about half what it was when futures were introduced. If you read my posts about how futures would be good for Bitcoin prices and put all your money in Bitcoin … sorry about that? I don’t know, if you took anything here as investing advice then I think that is more your fault than mine, but nonetheless I confess that my call was pretty bad.Here’s a Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Economic Letter about “How Futures Trading Changed Bitcoin Prices.” I suppose it is easier to be right about that question six months after the futures were introduced than it was a week before they were introduced, but still, the San Francisco Fed’s analysis is a little too textbook for my tastes:Before December 2017, there was no market for bitcoin derivatives. This meant that it was extremely difficult, if not impossible, to bet on the decline in bitcoin price. Such bets usually take the form of short selling, that is selling an asset before buying it, forward or future contracts, swaps, or a combination. Betting on the increase in bitcoin price was easy—one just had to buy it. Speculative demand for bitcoin came only from optimists, investors who were willing to bet money that the price was going to go up. And until December 17, those investors were right: As with a self-fulfilling prophecy, optimists’ demand pushed the price of bitcoin up, energizing more people to join in and keep pushing up the price. The pessimists, however, had no mechanism available to put money behind their belief that the bitcoin price would collapse. So they were left to wait for their “I told you so” moment.This one-sided speculative demand came to an end when the futures for bitcoin started trading on the CME on December 17.Umm look I guess. On the other hand let’s say you had found a convenient and inexpensive way to short Bitcoin in, say, December 2016. No borrow costs, no creepy exchanges, just a perfect seamless way to sell Bitcoins now and buy them back in the future. If you did that on December 17, 2016—a year before futures were actually introduced—you’d have had a 100-percent loss by May. If you did it in May, you’d have had a 100-percent loss by August. If you did it in August, you’d have had a 100-percent loss by October. If you did it in October, you’d have had a 100-percent loss by November. If you shorted Bitcoins in November 2017, hoo boy. I don’t entirely believe that the Bitcoin futures market is full of people taking naked short Bitcoin bets, is I guess my point here? The difficulty of shorting Bitcoin is not primarily about the mechanics of finding a way to short. It’s primarily about Bitcoin’s huge volatility and rapid rise and general ability to blow shorts up in like a day. You can find a lot of people pontificating that they’d love to short Bitcoin (here’s Bill Gates!), but they all … can … and … don’t? (Here’s Tyler Winklevoss telling Gates, go ahead, short Bitcoin, be my guest.) Even with the introduction of Bitcoin futures, there is no convenient way to express the view that “Bitcoin will eventually go to zero but I have no idea what these crazy kids will get up to for the next few years.” And that seems to be the actual short-Bitcoin thesis. If your thesis is “Bitcoin will go to zero in a month” then, sure, go ahead, short the futures, but I have trouble believing that there’s much money staked on that thesis. It seems a little nerve-wracking, you know?How’s Mick Mulvaney doing?Mick Mulvaney, who was installed as the head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a grim joke, has played a series of pranks there:Since taking over in November, he has halted all new investigations, frozen hiring, stopped data collection and proposed cutting off public access to a database of consumer complaints. He dropped most cases against payday lenders — a primary focus of the consumer bureau — and also proposed scrapping a new rule that would have heightened scrutiny of an industry accused of trapping vulnerable customers in a cycle of debt. And he has tried hard to persuade Congress to take away funding authority for the bureau from the Federal Reserve — so that Congress can cut it.Good ones, good ones. And here’s kind of a meta joke:Mr. Mulvaney seems happiest when describing new ways to undermine the consumer bureau by, say, removing its online complaint system from public view — or using the agency’s obscure statutory name, the “Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,” to undo years of branding.“The reading of the statute actually revealed some very fun things,” an excited Mr. Mulvaney told his friendly audience of bankers last week. “C.F.P.B. doesn’t exist! C.F.P.B. has never existed!”We’ve talked before about the dumb fight between Mulvaney and Leandra English, the former deputy director of the CFPB, who tried to mount a coup and declare herself director. That fizzled out, unsurprisingly, but Mulvaney’s comments suggest the compromise that should have happened. Mulvaney should be head of the BCFP, which will have no funding, do no investigations, hire no one and do nothing. He’d love it! English can be head of the CFPB, which will employ all the people who used to work at the CFPB to do all the investigations it used to do. And then they can argue about whether it exists.Conflicts of interest.We have talked before about the dumbest and most obvious conflict of interest in financial advising, which is that if you are a financial adviser it is in your financial interests to sell more financial advice, while that is not always in your customer’s interests. It is a conflict that is not limited to financial advising—it is just as applicable in car sales or clothing sales or anything else—and one that is difficult to resolve, since it is not some weird arcane scam but is inherent in the nature of capitalism. Still you could do this:One of Australia’s biggest banks has scrapped sales-based bonuses for its financial planners and vowed to drop planners who provide inappropriate advice.In a first among the country’s largest lenders, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said Monday that it is implementing initiatives to improve the quality of financial planning and of remediation for customers when things go wrong. … ANZ said it would end sales incentives for bonuses and assess planners solely on customer satisfaction, the bank’s values and risk and compliance standards.It only gets you part of the way there. I assume that an ANZ financial adviser who never sells anything will eventually be fired. You gotta do some business, to stay in business. I look forward to the first case of a financial-advice conscientious objector who goes to work as a financial adviser, never sells any financial products because she doesn’t believe in them, gets fired, and sues. Jay-Z.We talked last week about Shawn Carter, a/k/a Jay-Z, who was subpoenaed by the Securities and Exchange Commission to testify in a securities investigation. I joked, “He’ll probably show up at the SEC’s offices and they’ll begin ‘Mr. Carter, would it be accurate to say that Iconix had 99 problems and an accounting write-down of Rocawear intangible assets was one?’” But Jay-Z’s lawyers made more or less the same point, seriously, in responding to the subpoena:Jay-Z, whose given name is Shawn Carter, was willing to testify for a full day, but not “day-to-day until completed” as the SEC is seeking, his attorneys wrote in a court filing dated Monday. The lawyers cited Jay-Z’s concern that the agency’s request “is driven more by governmental fascination with celebrity and headlines than by any proper investigative purpose.”I do not want to impugn the motives of the SEC here, but … right? Like, I mean, they are conducting an investigation into accounting irregularities. That is fine as far as it goes, but it’s a little dry. It’s not gonna thrill your kids when you talk about it at the dinner table. Breaking up the forensic accounting analysis with a little time spent hanging out with Jay-Z is obviously pleasant. Though not so much for him. “Suffice to say, the professional and publicity demands on his time are enormous,” add his lawyers. Nor is it obvious that his testimony is that relevant. As Bloomberg points out, it’s a “probe of a firm he did business with more than a decade ago.” It feels like one day would be enough? Legal secretaries.Here is a heartwarming story about a recently deceased secretary at a big New York law firm who lived frugally, saved her money, invested wisely, and left a $9 million fortune when she died, almost all of which will go to charity. Because my readers are miserable cold-hearted cynics, like five people have sent me this story to be like “surely this was insider trading?” No? I feel like I read enough of these stories that focus on the magic of frugality and compound interest that I am not inclined to suspect the secretary. On the other hand:“She was a secretary in an era when they ran their boss’s lives, including their personal investments,” recalled her niece Jane Lockshin. “So when the boss would buy a stock, she would make the purchase for him, and then buy the same stock for herself, but in a smaller amount because she was on a secretary’s salary.”What if they were all insider trading? (She apparently started there in the 1940s, when that might have been a bit more socially and legally acceptable than it is today.) Still I don’t buy it. Also, I don’t spend a ton of time arguing that insider trading is a victimless crime, but, you know. So what if she was insider trading? What if she spent 67 years accumulating $9 million from the stock market, a little bit at a time, and then gave it all to charity? Is that actually worse than not doing it?Things happen.Retooling the leverage ratio. Goldman, Wells Fargo Look to Credit Cards for Bigger Returns. Activist Sets Sights on Citigroup. Shire board recommends £46bn takeover by Takeda. “Wild swings in aluminum prices have jolted buyers and sellers of the metal, threatening profits of companies that make everything from jets to beer cans.” Samsung Securities Seeks Charges Against Some Employees Over ‘Fat Finger’ Mistake. (Earlier.) The dangers of private placements. NY Attorney General Schneiderman Resigns. “In fact, even at its most commercial, sexual interaction is not a transferable commodity. It is labour, which was classified as a distinct input of production as far back as Ricardo and Smith.” Elon Musk is dating Grimes.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-10T13:35:08.986Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-10/lambos-kitties-and-blood-decoding-value-in-cryptocurrency-art
Last month, Michael Jackson, the venture capitalist and former Skype executive, spent $400,000 on a 10-foot-long neon sign consisting of 42 yellow letters and numbers that make up the blockchain contract address of a crypto-themed work of art called “Yellow Lambo.”Artist Kevin Abosch conceived it as a symbol of success, a way to physically manifest the wealth a digital coin can represent. Jackson doesn’t know whether the work is, or ever will be, worth the money. And yet this Yellow Lambo went for more than many real Lamborghinis.“Yellow Lambo”“Crypto assets -- they are so difficult to understand,” Jackson said. “A Lambo in real life is something the guys want to look up to. They are only doing it to show off, it symbolizes wealth. But a token -- no one can see it.”Crytpocurrencies boast a market cap of $430 billion, leading people to question the actual worth of invisible assets unconnected to any traditional store of value. So while Bitcoin appreciated 14-fold last year, billionaire investor Warren Buffett is still calling the currency “rat poison squared.” Now artists are weighing in, raising their own questions about value, ownership and crypto’s underlying technology.When JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chairman Jamie Dimon called crypto a “terrible store of value,” artist “cryptograffiti” responded with a piece with the same name. “Terrible Store of Value” is a portrait of a “disintegrating” Dimon -- “mirroring the public’s trust toward traditional banking institutions,” according to cryptograffiti’s website -- executed on a bank deposit box that’s connected to a Bitcoin wallet.The piece sold for $33,000 at auction this year. More works will go up for bid May 12 in a charity art auction at the Ethereal Summit in Maspeth, New York.Blockchain, the ledger technology underlying many cryptocurrencies, has “huge potential” and is attracting dozens of established artists, said Christiane Paul, director of the Sheila C. Johnson Design Center at the New School’s Parsons School of Design in New York.“Artists have always been engaging with the latest technologies,” said Paul, who is also adjunct curator of digital art the Whitney Museum of American Art. “It’s important that artists capture a certain kind of moment in cultural and technological evolution.”In June, the Whitney’s website will start showing a three-minute film by Jennifer and Kevin McCoy that offers clues to a Bitcoin address where the first 50 people can claim part-ownership of the piece, which the artists plan to donate to the museum. The owners will be able to resell their shares in the work, allowing other people to get their names associated with the piece -- in the museum world, donors typically can’t be added after the fact.“This piece rips the existing infrastructure apart, and that to me was incredibly interesting,” Paul said.Abosch, of the Yellow Lambo, has put himself into his work, selling more than 2.5 million tokens for as much as $10 a throw as part of his “IAMA Coin” project. Each IAMA coin represents a piece of the artist, he said.“I imagined if I were a coin, how would I distribute myself to the masses?” Abosch said.Using his own blood and a rubber stamp, he imprinted 100 physical artworks with the contract address on the Ethereum blockchain “corresponding to the creation” of 10 million virtual works titled “IAMA Coin.”Abosch is also behind what may be the highest-priced crypto art sale. Ten buyers paid a total of $1 million for a blockchain-registered share of “The Forever Rose,” a digital photo of a flower. Starting May 24 at the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, he’ll exhibit canvas sacks imprinted with wallet addresses -- but without the private keys needed to unlock the wallets.Online art dealers are also cashing in on the trend. Cryptoart.com, which sells limited-edition prints, saw sales more than double in the first quarter year-over-year, according to owner Troy Fearnow. Lynx Art Collection also offers physical artworks with crypto themes (“Bitcoin’s White Paper, On Wood!”).“A lot of people were looking for ways to spend their cryptocurrencies,” Lynx co-founder Frank McKeever said. “They want something cool to buy that can also represent what they like and what they believe in. It’s our most popular category.”Some items, costing between $80 and $900, have sold out within hours, McKeever said. He figures that as many as 10 percent of the 822,000 subscribers to Reddit’s Bitcoin page may be interested in something they can put on a wall, “and it can appreciate.”McKeever is also partnering with Rare Bits, a marketplace for digital assets, to sell ownership to digitized artworks through tokens that go for $200 to $600.Entrepreneurs are already using blockchain to verify the authenticity of artworks. And according to Bryce Bladon, communications manager at Axiom Zen, crypto could help resurrect the digital art market, which collapsed when the internet made it possible to endlessly reproduce and distribute files. Digital art could regain value if ownership is recorded on distributed ledgers, he said.CryptoKitties“There are serious problems with art that the blockchain could solve,” said Bladon, whose company makes the popular blockchain game CryptoKitties.In CryptoKitties, players breed and trade virtual cats. There are about 700,000 different digital kitties, some of which have sold for more than $100,000. Guilherme Twardowski, art director at CryptoKitties, calls the game “procedural art.”Crypto art got its start thanks to incentive-driven puzzles by figures including Marguerite deCourcelle, creator of “The Legend of Satoshi Nakamoto,” named for Bitcoin’s pseudonymous mastermind.Three years ago, she posted a photo of the abstract oil pastel, which contained clues to unlocking about five Bitcoins. By the time a winner finally claimed the funds this February -- guessing that the flames on the painting’s border contained a code -- the Bitcoins were worth about $45,470. The winner called the puzzle “a breathtaking and dramatic experience.”"The Legend of Satoshi Nakamoto"“It was exactly how I wanted it to be solved,” deCourcelle said. She hasn’t sold the actual painting, she said, though she’s received offers.Just how much this art will appreciate in the coming years remains an open question.“I’m no expert on Bitcoin but I’m a little wary of it,” Bob Banks, who offers art appraiser services, said in an email. “Limited-edition prints have gone down over the last 20-30 years and combining the two does not seem like a good combination to me. You will not find me investing in it.”But many collectors are like Jackson, the buyer of Yellow Lambo: long-time crypto fans who admire the concepts but don’t dwell on long-term appreciation.“It’s going to provoke a lot of questions, and I like that,” Jackson said.Besides, he added, it will look great above his indoor pool in Luxembourg.— With assistance by Camila Russo

2018-05-13T22:44:43.783Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-13/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
  Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.The U.S. is considering allowing investments if North Korea gives up its nuclear ambitions, Trump throws a lifeline to beleaguered Chinese firm ZTE in reversal, and Malaysian markets will be in focus as they reopen after Mahathir’s stunning victory. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.The U.S. is ready to allow investments in North Korea once it has verifiable proof of the Asian nation’s denuclearization, two of President Donald Trump’s top national security officials said. Security Adviser John Bolton said on ABC’s “This Week” that the U.S. was prepared to open trade and investment with North Korea as soon as it can. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo,  in an interview on CBS, talked of the potential for U.S. investment in the North Asian nation from America’s “entrepreneurs, our risk takers, our capital providers.” Before any such benefits flow, though, Bolton and Pompeo said the U.S. must have proof that the denuclearization process is complete, verifiable, and irreversible. The remarks come ahead of a historic summit between Trump and Kim in Singapore on June 12 that may pave the way for the North Korean dictator to give up his nuclear arsenal. In a major reversal for a president who has many times accused China of stealing U.S. jobs, Donald Trump ordered the U.S. Commerce Department to get ZTE Corp. back into business, weeks after cutting off the massive Chinese telecom equipment maker from its U.S. suppliers with a condemnation of ZTE’s “egregious” behavior. Trump said in a Sunday morning tweet that he and Chinese leader Xi Jinping are working together to give ZTE “a way to get back into business, fast.’’  The U.S. blockade has choked off the revenue of the No. 2 Chinese telecom company, which  regards the next two weeks as crucial as it faces potential collapse. The firm said May 10 it’s suspended all major operations. Its shares stopped trading in Hong Kong last month.Malaysian assets are due to reopen on Monday with Mahathir Mohamad keen to try and reassure investors after his shock election victory.  He said the king is willing to pardon Anwar Ibrahim -- who would then at some stage take over from Mahathir as prime minister. The prospect of 70-year-old Anwar might offer more long-term stability than having 92-year-old Mahathir heading up the day-to-day governing of the country.  Elsewhere in Asia, China’s monthly activity data are likely to paint a mixed picture, with factory output picking up but growth in consumption steady and fixed-asset investment edging down. Japan may report a ninth straight quarter of economic growth, though slower than in the fourth quarter. Malaysia and Singapore GDP are also due, as are India's CPI and trade. Australia reports GDP on Thursday.  U.S. retail sales and industrial production for April will give early signals about the strength of the U.S. economy in the second quarter. Trade and geopolitical tensions will remain in focus with the U.S. planning top open its embassy in Jerusalem on Monday and China Vice Premier Liu He expected in Washington on Tuesday for trade talks.Asian equity futures pointed to a mixed open to kick off the week. U.S. stocks edged higher on Friday,  capping their best week in two months amid growing conviction that inflation will remain tame and as trade tensions eased. The dollar steadied, while 10-year Treasury yields held below 3 percent. Precious metals were down across the board, and aluminum dropped 2 percent. Bitcoin fell 5 percent. Of particular focus for markets this week will be the U.S. yield curve. St. Louis Fed Chief James Bullard predicted inversion may happen later this year or in 2019 if the Fed keeps up its pace of raising rates. Any hints from Fed speakers this week that inversion may lead to slower increases could spur another bout of bull steepening.Only three days after 92-year-old Mahathir Mohamad secured a shocking election win, he barred predecessor Najib Razak from leaving Malaysia and said he’d reopen a graft probe targeting state fund 1MDB. He also said he was replacing the attorney-general who cleared Najib and instructed the auditor-general to declassify a 1MDB report that was protected by the Official Secrets Act.  Razak worked hard to keep the public from accessing information about a multi-billion dollar scandal at the fund. Najib has long denied any wrongdoing and aggressively hit back at detractors after 2015 revelations that around $700 million -- alleged to be 1MDB funds -- appeared in his personal accounts before the prior election in 2013.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-05-08T22:00:11.401Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-08/people-want-to-short-bitcoin-but-don-t
This post originally appeared in Money Stuff.Have I apologized yet for how wrong I was about Bitcoin futures? In the weeks before Bitcoin futures started trading at Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc., a lot of people argued that Bitcoin futures would finally provide a convenient way to short Bitcoin, and that the shorts would rush in and deflate the price. Meanwhile I was galaxy-braining around being like “no no no you see this is a convenient way to buy Bitcoin, which was previously just as hard for careful conservative financial institutions as shorting it was, and so the introduction of Bitcoin futures will make the price go up.” And then the futures started trading and I took a victory lap, like, five minutes into the trading session, when Bitcoin hit a new record high.And then it fell and has never recovered; Bitcoin is worth about half what it was when futures were introduced. If you read my posts about how futures would be good for Bitcoin prices and put all your money in Bitcoin … sorry about that? I don’t know, if you took anything here as investing advice then I think that is more your fault than mine, but nonetheless I confess that my call was pretty bad.Here’s a Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Economic Letter about “How Futures Trading Changed Bitcoin Prices.” I suppose it is easier to be right about that question six months after the futures were introduced than it was a week before they were introduced, but still, the San Francisco Fed’s analysis is a little too textbook for my tastes:Before December 2017, there was no market for bitcoin derivatives. This meant that it was extremely difficult, if not impossible, to bet on the decline in bitcoin price. Such bets usually take the form of short selling, that is selling an asset before buying it, forward or future contracts, swaps, or a combination. Betting on the increase in bitcoin price was easy — one just had to buy it. Speculative demand for bitcoin came only from optimists, investors who were willing to bet money that the price was going to go up. And until December 17, those investors were right: As with a self-fulfilling prophecy, optimists’ demand pushed the price of bitcoin up, energizing more people to join in and keep pushing up the price. The pessimists, however, had no mechanism available to put money behind their belief that the bitcoin price would collapse. So they were left to wait for their “I told you so” moment.This one-sided speculative demand came to an end when the futures for bitcoin started trading on the CME on December 17.Umm look I guess. On the other hand let’s say you had found a convenient and inexpensive way to short Bitcoin in, say, December 2016. No borrow costs, no creepy exchanges, just a perfect seamless way to sell Bitcoins now and buy them back in the future. If you did that on December 17, 2016 — a year before futures were actually introduced — you’d have had a 100-percent loss by May. If you did it in May, you’d have had a 100-percent loss by August. If you did it in August, you’d have had a 100-percent loss by October. If you did it in October, you’d have had a 100-percent loss by November. If you shorted Bitcoins in November 2017, hoo boy. I don’t entirely believe that the Bitcoin futures market is full of people taking naked short Bitcoin bets, is I guess my point here? The difficulty of shorting Bitcoin is not primarily about the mechanics of finding a way to short. It’s primarily about Bitcoin’s huge volatility and rapid rise and general ability to blow shorts up in like a day. You can find a lot of people pontificating that they’d love to short Bitcoin (here’s Bill Gates!), but they all … can … and … don’t? (Here’s Tyler Winklevoss telling Gates, go ahead, short Bitcoin, be my guest.) Even with the introduction of Bitcoin futures, there is no convenient way to express the view that “Bitcoin will eventually go to zero but I have no idea what these crazy kids will get up to for the next few years.” And that seems to be the actual short-Bitcoin thesis. If your thesis is “Bitcoin will go to zero in a month” then, sure, go ahead, short the futures, but I have trouble believing that there’s much money staked on that thesis. It seems a little nerve-wracking, you know?If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks!This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-09T15:00:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-09/ex-goldman-trader-hires-former-rivals-to-build-a-crypto-empire
Yuzo Kano is trying to build a global cryptocurrency powerhouse, one former financier at a time.The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. alumnus, who turned bitFlyer Inc. into Japan’s largest Bitcoin exchange, is scooping up traders and bankers from both his old employer and former rivals as he embarks on an ambitious international expansion. Kano’s team, which includes a former fixed-income desk head at Barclays Plc and an ex-senior private banker at Credit Suisse Group AG, has doubled to more than 150 people in the past six months and is on pace to top 300 before year-end.Yuzo KanoWhile he’s far from the only crypto boss to poach talent from Wall Street firms, Kano has been among the most aggressive in taking advantage of recent Japanese regulations that make the finance-to-crypto leap less daunting. The nation’s virtual currency exchanges are now licensed by Japan’s securities watchdog, giving the venues an official stamp of approval that’s largely absent from countries like the U.S. and Britain. For Kano, that makes Japan the ideal base for an increasingly global operation.“My target is to be number one in the world,” the former derivatives and convertible bonds trader said in an interview from his office in Midtown Tower, the tony Tokyo skyscraper that’s also home to Blackstone Group and Bain & Co. “To get there, I need to grow headcount. And those with the best skills come from global banks.”Read more about Japan’s unique crypto exchange regulations here.Kano’s four-year-old exchange is already the world’s fourth largest crypto venue by turnover, after BitMex, Binance and OKEx, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from exchanges, Coinhills and Coinmarketcap.com. Transactions on bitFlyer averaged about $2 billion a day during late April and early May, thanks in large part to Bitcoin margin contracts popular with Japanese day-traders. The venue’s users have tripled in the past year to 2 million.On top of existing locations in Tokyo, San Francisco and Luxembourg, Kano is eyeing new offices in Africa, South America, Australia and other parts of Asia. He’s also expanding beyond crypto trading to businesses that include digital payments and a brokerage-advisory service for investors and startups interested in initial coin offerings. The strategy is similar to that of Mike Novogratz, another Goldman alum who recently started a New York-based crypto merchant bank.Read more: Novogratz’s Galaxy Is Said to Lure Kim From GoldmanKano, bitFlyer’s co-founder and chief executive officer, said former traders and bankers are ideal for crypto firms because they understand how to operate in regulated markets -- a skill set that’s becoming more important as governments around the world scrutinize an industry notorious for security lapses and money laundering risks. Last month, bitFlyer tightened its anti-money laundering rules after the Nikkei newspaper reported that users could perform some limited functions without fully completing customer verification.“Crypto companies need finance guys to fill roles across the board: business development, sales, account management, operations, and compliance just to name a few,” said Razin Ashraf, head of Tokyo-based recruiting firm Divine Solutions Japan.Of course, technology matters too. Kano’s hiring spree also includes coders, who can make $100,000 at bitFlyer with a high school -- or even middle school -- education if they’ve got a track record of success at hackathons or coding tournaments.Kano, 42, said bitFlyer’s ideal finance recruits fall into one of two groups: experienced bankers in their 40s tired of corporate bureaucracy, or younger associates in their 20s who’ve become disillusioned with the industry and are hungry for a taste of startup life.“Japan is facing long-term headwinds including negative interest rates, which is driving headcount lower at finance firms,” said Yoshiharu Akahane, who oversees fintech research at Tokyo-based NTT Data Corp. “That coincides with our huge crypto boom, which is much stronger than in the rest of the world, and explains why more people may jump to the crypto industry.”Kano can’t promise to beat the banks on salaries, but he said there are plenty of people at bitFlyer who earn more than $200,000 a year.Stock options are also a major draw. All of bitFlyer’s full-time employees receive them and can cash out without having to wait for the company’s planned initial public offering, Kano said, declining to elaborate on a timeframe for an IPO. “At what other startup can the secretary become a millionaire?”That upside potential could help bitFlyer compete for talent even as Wall Street firms tiptoe into the crypto space themselves. Goldman is preparing to open a Bitcoin-trading business, while Intercontinental Exchange Inc., the owner of New York Stock Exchange, is said to be working on a platform that would let investors bet on the cryptocurrency. In Japan, financial companies including SBI Holdings Inc. and Monex Group Inc. are making big investments in crypto businesses.Yuzo KanoWhile Kano declined to discuss details of bitFlyer’s finances, disclosures from one of its rivals suggest crypto exchanges in Japan are comfortably profitable. Coincheck Inc., the venue that lost client assets to hackers in January, reported an estimated $490 million in operating profit in the 10 months before the theft (the exchange was later bought by Monex).There’s no guarantee that the boom times will last. Average daily turnover at global crypto exchanges fell to $9.1 billion in April from $17 billion in December as prices for most major tokens sank more than 50 percent from their highs, according to CryptoCompare. In another sign of waning interest, Google searches for “Bitcoin” and “crypto” have dropped by more than 70 percent since late last year.That said, Bitcoin is still up more than 1,800 percent on a two-year horizon -- trading around $9,270 on Thursday -- and the flood of ICOs shows little sign of stopping despite growing regulatory scrutiny. For Wall Street types who watched the go-go years of 2005-2007 give way to the global crisis and a more utility-like role for banks in the aftermath, the excitement surrounding cryptocurrencies is proving tough to resist.“I just didn’t see a future in traditional finance,” said Daisuke Murayama, the 35-year-old former Barclays trader who took a pay cut to join bitFlyer in February. “It’s never coming back.”

2018-05-09T14:44:08.955Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-09/unembarrassed-ceos-have-more-freedom
Oh Elon.Why should public companies be run for the benefit of their shareholders, anyway? It’s not the law, not really. Corporate directors do normally have certain fiduciary duties to shareholders, and shareholders do normally have certain governance rights, but the idea that the sole purpose of a public company is to maximize the stock price for shareholders is mostly a myth. Like many myths, though, it works because it commands widespread belief. If the shareholders believe it, and the directors believe it, and the managers believe it, and the public believes it, then companies will maximize the stock price for their shareholders, and for practical purposes the myth will be true.There are some enforcement mechanisms, though, to keep the people who don’t believe it in line. If a company’s management doesn’t act in the shareholders’ interests, an activist shareholder can launch a proxy fight and appoint her own directors and change the company’s direction. Or another company can mount a hostile takeover and extract value by running the company in a more shareholder-friendly way. These are blunt instruments, though. They are expensive, and legally complicated, and require way more of the activist’s or bidder’s time and attention and money than most regular shareholders can spare. And in many scenarios they can destroy as much value as they create. If you have a visionary founder-CEO who doesn’t care about shareholder value and who just pursues his own idiosyncratic interests, but whose idiosyncratic projects nonetheless sometimes create shareholder value, replacing him with a shareholder-focused bureaucrat might just make things worse. There are lesser enforcement mechanisms. Shareholders can write angry letters, or go on television to complain. They can introduce nonbinding shareholder proposals, or withhold their votes from the company’s directors. The key feature of all of these enforcement mechanisms is that they have no binding effect. If you don’t vote for a company’s directors, they keep being directors just as much as if you do—unless you mount an active proxy fight to nominate someone else.The only effect of these things is to embarrass the directors and executives. This is not nothing! Indeed it seems to be the principal mechanism of corporate governance. The greatest disaster that can befall most public-company boards of directors, in the ordinary course of things, is that like 30 percent of shareholders might vote for a nonbinding proposal that the board doesn’t like. “Oh no, a large minority made a completely symbolic gesture,” say the directors, and they promptly change their ways. This makes sense. From a corporate perspective, symbolically disgruntled shareholders become somewhat more likely to support non-symbolic enforcement mechanisms, like proxy fights and takeovers, that would actually toss out the directors. And from a personal perspective, if you are a public-company director, your main objective might be to maximize your public-company directoring, and you are more likely to get on more and better boards if your service on your current board meets with enthusiastic shareholder approval.But one of the great arbitrages in finance—in life—is being immune to embarrassment. If you are an unembarrassable chief executive officer, you can just do whatever you want. When your shareholders come to you and say “you should really maximize shareholder value instead,” you can reply “well where does it say that?” And then they can write angry letters and vote on nonbinding resolutions and you can gleefully ignore them. You are increasing your risk of a proxy fight or a hostile takeover, but in this scenario (1) you are probably enough of a risk-taker that that doesn’t bother you and (2) you have probably come by your immunity to embarrassment honestly—by actually creating shareholder value—so that the risk remains acceptable. Obviously Elon Musk is up to some things again. Well, and so are his shareholders:An activist firm representing Tesla Inc. shareholders has excoriated the electric-car maker, claiming that it’s veered off the path to profit and urging a major overhaul of the Elon Musk-led board.CtW Investment Group, working with union pension funds that are Tesla investors managing more than $250 billion, opposes the re-election of three board members who are up for votes during Tesla’s June 5 annual meeting. The firm calls for shareholders to cast ballots against Antonio Gracias, a private-equity investor and Tesla’s lead independent director; Kimbal Musk, Elon’s brother; and James Murdoch, CEO of Twenty-First Century Fox Inc.Now, sure, if 30 percent of shareholders withhold their completely symbolic votes for a public-company director, that will be embarrassing. But when the director is the CEO’s brother, who cares, man, who cares? “’We would find it inexplicable if Tesla were anything like a well-run public company,’” CtW executive director Dieter “Waizenegger said of Kimbal Musk’s re-nomination,” but that sort of begs the question doesn’t it? Yes, if Tesla was a different kind of company, it wouldn’t stock its board with its CEO’s relatives, but it does, which tells you that it isn’t. Meanwhile here are real words:Move over, candy and flamethrowers. Elon Musk tweeted out plans Monday for yet another side venture: alleviating the nation's housing crisis."The Boring Company will be using dirt from tunnel digging to create bricks for low-cost housing," he wrote in a tweet about his nascent tunneling enterprise.A company spokesman confirmed the plans, saying the bricks will come from the "excavated muck," and that "there will be an insane amount of bricks.” Musk has also suggested he has plans to sell them, and the company said future Boring Co. offices will be constructed from the company’s own bricks. If Tesla was anything like a well-run company its CEO wouldn't also be running a whole other company that appears to consist entirely of a series of Twitter jokes. But here we are! I have often said that I would not want to be Elon Musk’s lawyer, but I kind of do want to be the corporate secretary or whoever will bring him the news that a substantial minority of Tesla shareholders have withheld their votes for his brother to be a director. “Hahahaha who could possibly care,” Musk will shout, while tossing bricks out of the candy-filled rocket that he is flying to Mars. Libor.What will replace Libor? That is actually two subtly different questions. One question is: In new floating-rate loans and derivatives, what will people use as the floating reference rate now that the London Interbank Offered Rate has been discredited by manipulation scandals and a lack of actual market transactions? (That itself may be two or more questions, with different answers for derivatives and loans, or different answers for different regions.) In the U.S., people seem to like the Federal Reserve’s Secured Overnight Financing Rate, and if it builds up a term structure it may become the standard for interest-rate derivatives and floating-rate loans. So that’s the answer to that question, and that question tends to be the one that people ask, because it is forward-looking and substantive.But the other question is: In old floating-rate loans and derivatives, which referenced Libor, what will happen? This is a less interesting question in theory, but a more interesting one for lawyers. If there’s a good new Libor replacement—SOFR, say—then people can negotiate to amend their contracts to reference SOFR instead if Libor. (If they coexist for a while and there are Libor/SOFR basis swaps, then you can get a spread between Libor and SOFR and use that to amend the contract: If 3-month Libor tends to be 60 basis points above SOFR, and your loan was at Libor + 300, you can change it to SOFR + 360, or whatever.) But that is a lot of negotiating, and you could imagine a lot of contracts just not being amended even as Libor goes away. Then what? Well, then the contract says what will happen, but you don’t want to know. Here is an analysis from Oliver Wyman and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP of Libor fallback language in existing contracts:Crucially, legacy fallback language was typically originally intended to address the temporary unavailability of LIBOR, such as a computer systems glitch affecting the designated screen page or a temporary market disruption. Until recently, such language was rarely written to address explicitly the possibility of the permanent discontinuance of LIBOR. As a result, legacy fallback language may result in unintended economic consequences.Here’s a particularly silly one:Securities issued in the capital markets that reference LIBOR typically provide that if LIBOR is not available for an interest determination date, the rate will be determined by reference to quotations by reference banks, and, if the reference banks are not quoting, LIBOR for the relevant interest determination date will remain LIBOR for the immediately preceding interest reset period. If there was no interest reset period, the rate of interest payable will be fixed at the initial interest rate. ...The net effect will be that instruments that were intended to be floating rate securities become fixed rate securities, with the fixed rate based on LIBOR at a point in time during the term of the security, no longer fluctuating based on changes in interest rates. There will be winners and losers based on future interest rate movements. Consequently, we believe that there is likely to be regulatory scrutiny of the impact of this outcome on retail investors.If your floating-rate Libor thing becomes a fixed-rate thing, and interest rates keep going up, you might feel aggrieved. Or thrilled, depending on which side of the thing you are on, but one assumes that if the banks are on the receive-floating side they are not going to let this sort of thing happen. And if they’re on the pay-floating side then regulators are going to hear about it.My own dumb idea is that Libor should cross-reference itself out of existence: The organization responsible for Libor (currently ICE, which replaced the British Bankers’ Association after the scandal) should just say “overnight U.S.-dollar Libor is defined as SOFR + X basis points, and 3-month Libor is defined as the following formula applied to SOFR futures prices, and euro Libor is defined as” etc. etc. etc., and then it should report a thing called “Libor” that is actually just calculated from the new benchmark, and that should flow to the designated Bloomberg screens that contracts use to define Libor, and everything will be seamless. I mean, except that everyone will sue. But if you could get a consensus that “____ is the new Libor,” for some ____, and “new Libor” meant not only “rate that will be broadly used to replace Libor” but also “rate that is considered the economic equivalent of Libor,” then that would be the clean way to do it. A lot of contracts call the Libor function. You can amend the contracts to make each of them call a new function. But you could also just rewrite the Libor function to make it call the new function, which seems like a lot less work.Bitcoin futures.We talked yesterday about Bitcoin futures, and about the San Francisco Fed’s view that the introduction of futures at Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc. made it easier for investors to short Bitcoin and so brought down the price. This is contrary to my own earlier prediction that the introduction of futures would make it easier for investors to go long Bitcoin, and so would raise the price. The fact that the price of Bitcoin is about half what it was when futures were introduced is a pretty good argument for the San Francisco Fed’s view. But Donald Wilson of DRW Holdings disagrees; he emails:If the launch of BTC futures was the catalyst for the decline in the price of BTC, we would have expected to have seen aggressive selling in BTC futures.  This would be reflected in the term structure of the spot and futures.  We generally need to consider cash-and-carry, and other arbitrage factors in thinking about a neutral curve shape.  Suppose storage costs of spot BTC are close to zero, and market participants are willing to use cash-and-carry as an alternative to risk-free investing, and there is no benefit to owning spot BTC (this is probably an incorrect assumption), then we would expect a very slightly upward sloping curve (contango), with the shape driven by the risk free rate.  Since in fact there is a benefit to being long spot and short futures (ability to capture forks, and ability to arbitrage between spot exchanges with the coins), we need to compare that benefit vs. the risk free rate.  There is fortunately a proxy for that benefit - namely the BTC borrow market.  Currently BTC borrow is about 10% per annum.  Therefore we would expect the curve to be backwardated to the tune of the difference between 10% and the risk free rate, or roughly 8%.  Now that we have an expected curve shape based on rough arbitrage boundaries, we can think about how dramatically one-sided order flow would impact this curve.  Clearly, if there were aggressive sellers of futures, we would expect an even more backwardated curve.So what did we actually see?  We saw futures trade at a huge PREMIUM to the spot market. …  My conclusion is that the launch of the BTC futures was in fact not the catalyst for the decline in the market. It was not used by "smart money" to short BTC. Quite the contrary, the dominant futures market participants bought BTC futures when they were launched, with prices on the highs, and later sold at lower prices.If people were flocking to sell futures, then futures would trade below the spot price of Bitcoin, and longer-dated futures would be even lower than near-term ones. In fact the opposite was true. Now, I have argued that in fact the the cost of storing “physical” Bitcoins is not zero, and that it would be rational for certain types of investors to prefer to hold Bitcoin in the form of futures rather than in the form of actual Bitcoins. But my argument and Wilson’s come to roughly the same place, which is that the introduction of Bitcoin futures seems to have been a catalyst for people to buy Bitcoins.Of course the fact that prices plummeted shortly after futures were introduced is an embarrassment for our theories, but not a fatal one. Price changes are complicated! It’s entirely possible that the introduction of Bitcoin futures led to an increase increase in the price of Bitcoin that was more than offset by a drop in the price of Bitcoin for entirely unrelated reasons. I feel silly typing that but it is nonetheless true. Airline miles.Oh look it’s another random company announcing a random pivot to blockchain:The Cathay Pacific Group and its rewards programme, Asia Miles, are launching their first application of smart blockchain technology in a marketing campaign, in collaboration with Accenture. ...The Mobile App has been designed by Cathay Pacific and Asia Miles. It has been delivered by Accenture, using a mixture of deep blockchain, loyalty and aviation industry technology expertise.By harnessing blockchain technology, the Cathay Pacific Group and Asia Miles are providing Asia Miles partners a single data source when managing account activity. This allows Asia Miles, partners and members a near real-time ability to manage rewards.You know it is good because it uses both smart blockchain technology and deep blockchain. Etc. etc. etc.; the obvious objection, here and everywhere, is that if Cathay Pacific is the trusted central administrator in charge of Asia Miles then it can just keep a list of who has how many miles. That list could be the “single data source,” and if Cathay just updates it quickly then it can give everyone “a near real-time ability to manage rewards.” You so rarely need to administer a single company’s customer database using a blockchain, or a smart blockchain, or even a deep blockchain.Back when initial coin offerings were a novelty and people were struggling to understand them, airline miles were a commonly used metaphor to explain them. The idea of an ICO is—loosely speaking, and ignoring the key element of an unowned distributed infrastructure—that a company can raise money by pre-selling a token that will eventually be redeemable for its product. You know, like airline miles. Except on the blockchain. “My explanation is that they’re like if the Wright Brothers sold air miles to finance inventing the airplane,” I once tweeted. Now actual airline miles are moving to the blockchain. It is only a matter of time before Asia Miles become CathayCoins, and Cathay Pacific sells a bunch of them in an ICO.Speaking of random pivots to the blockchain, Facebook Inc. has “a new internal team dedicated to exploring blockchain technology.” Facebook’s stock closed up 0.4 percent yesterday, which is a little disappointing; time was, an internet company could announce a pivot to the blockchain and shoot up 10, 20, 30, 100 percent. Of course Facebook is a half-trillion-dollar company. It would be funny if it could add $100 billion in market cap just by blockchaining a blockchain onto the blockchain. Anyway look forward to your centrally administered Facebook data now being on a centrally administered Facebook blockchain.Congrats Penny Pennington.Here’s some retail-brokerage people news:Edward Jones has named Penny Pennington as its new head, the only woman to lead a major U.S. brokerage firm as the industry scrambles to attract more female advisers and assets.That is an important milestone but I cannot resist adding that Penny Pennington is the greatest financial-industry double-barreled aptonym since Rich Ricci left Barclays. If you were launching a new roboadvisor or trading app and wanted to have an animated artificial-intelligence assistant to help your customers use the app, you’d be thrilled to come up with a name half as good as Penny Pennington. But this one is real!Things happen.Where are we with electronic bond trading? Will the 10-year come with a 3 percent coupon? Argentina Is in Talks to Get a $30 Billion Flexible Credit Line From the IMF. Deutsche Bank Weighs Cutting U.S. Staff by About 20%. The CFTC is “holding this place together with duct tape.” Valeant will change its name to Bausch Health. Is the “IPO tax” a thing? Xiaomi Cuts IPO Valuation Target to $70 Billion to $80 Billion. Switzerland’s ‘Vollgeld’ banking overhaul: how reform would work. Pension Funds Still Making Promises They Probably Can’t Keep. AT&T Hired Firm of Michael Cohen as It Sought Trump ‘Insights.’ Ray Dalio’s “Principles” is now a 30-minute online animated series for recent college graduates. Naturally Occurring Escape Rooms.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-08T13:10:21.407Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/bitcoin-s-biggest-rival-faces-overhaul-as-computing-power-rises
A fight is on for the soul of Ether.With a market capitalization of $73 billion, the biggest cryptocurrency after Bitcoin has been hailed as the future of digital finance because of its ability to layer software applications on top of transactions. But as Ether rises in price and importance, powerful players within the virtual currency world such as equipment maker Bitmain are angling for greater control and profit.What’s at stake is domination of the process known as mining, where scores of computers solve complex mathematical riddles to win newly minted coins in exchange for processing the transactions that allow the network function.Ethereum developers have always wanted the project to be "a world computer," in which millions of people’s PCs and graphics card-based machines run the digital ledger. Such a wide web of participants "gives Ethereum extreme levels of fault tolerance, ensures zero downtime, and makes data stored on the blockchain forever unchangeable and censorship-resistant," according to Ethereum’s documents.The range of participants could be about to shrink, as Bitmain and others move in with a new type of computing hardware that could give them disproportionate power when it comes to confirming transactions. The new hardware, which should become available in July or sooner, could push out smaller miners and is "a nightmare for decentralization," said Lucas Nuzzi, a senior analyst at Digital Asset Research.Ethereum developers are rushing to stop the invasion. During a call last month, Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin said that the risk will go away once the community deploys Casper -- software that will get rid of miners altogether and confirm transactions in a different way, which would expand the number of people involved in the process. But the date of Casper’s deployment is uncertain, with the project having already been delayed for months.Interest in search results over timeSource: Google TrendsMembers of the community have also debated capping Ether supply or changing algorithms to combat miners using the so-called ASIC-based hardware.ASIC, or application-specific integrated circuit-based computers, are more efficient than traditional PCs, phones or graphics cards in running specific algorithms used in confirming transactions -- so they can earn tokens more cheaply and faster. They have long been used to mine Bitcoin. Later, they spread into Litecoin and Dash. Bitmain announced the first-ever ASIC computer able to mine Zcash in May, and an ASIC miner for Ether last month.“That could have a negative impact on the Ethereum community and therefore on Ethereum price," said Sam Doctor, managing director at Fundstrat Global Advisors who holds some Ether. The coin “may underperform the space," though that may be short-lived, he said.The greater mining power could let Bitmain -- or other large miners that buys its gear -- to gain control over the network in what is known as a 51-percent attack, in which they could falsify transactions and make away with other users’ coins."If Bitmain miners became so large that it would present a 51-percent attack risk, this could undermine prices," Susquehanna Investment Group’s Christopher Rolland said.Bitmain said the company has specifically made an effort to avert reaching the transaction processing threshold. Such a move "would not be in the economic best interests of any participant in a cryptocurrency ecosystem as it would weaken faith in the currency, causing its value to fall," according to an emailed statement. "Further, in selling its Ethereum mining devices to its customers, Bitmain worked to ensure that no one participant received an undue allocation of units. This further reduces the possibility of any one party controlling the network."QuickTake: New Crypto Exchanges Don’t Want (to Hold) Your MoneyIt’s not just Bitmain that looks to disrupt this market. At least three other companies are working on Ethereum ASIC miners as well, Rolland said in a recent note. And some of the makers may be deploying ASICs for mining Ether already."There’s a concern in the community that a lot of the ASIC manufacturers are hoarding a lot of chips and doing their own mining," said Timothy Tam, co-founder of market intelligence platform CoinFi.Bitmain’s $800 Ether miner will ship in July, according to the company’s website. It can deliver a hash, or processing, rate of 180 megahashes a second. By comparison, Bitmain’s own GPU-based machine used to mine Ether at 220 megahashes is for sale online for about $4,000. So the new gear is many times cheaper and more efficient than anything that current Ether miners use."These are the conservative estimates," the company said on its website. "We expect the miners to deliver higher performance and efficiency when they are ready to ship."Many investors say ASICs are just something they may have to live with, as mining equipment makers grow more powerful."ASICs & Mining (and Bitmain) is certainly a reality in today’s market," said Dave Balter, partner at Flipside Crypto, which runs investment vehicles for cryptocurrencies. "These things tend to create a lot of noise and news, but we tend to stay focused on the fundamentals. Ethereum is a great project, it will continue to be one, regardless of how fast it gets mined."

2018-05-07T22:34:03.571Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/bitcoin-to-rally-on-consensus-conference-fundstrat-analyst-says
Bitcoin is relatively cheap ahead of a major cryptocurrency conference in New York next week, setting the stage for a rally, according to researchers led by Tom Lee of Fundstrat Global Advisors.“We expect the Consensus rally to be even larger than past years,” the head of research said in a note to clients, referring to the Manhattan conference gathering for its fourth year. The event may draw more than 7,000 people, a surge from roughly 2,750 a year ago, Lee said. Last time, when new attendance doubled, Bitcoin rose 69 percent during the conference and 138 percent in the two months afterward, he said.Bitcoin slipped 3.4 percent since 5 p.m. Friday to $9,350 at 6:10 p.m. in New York, according to a composite of prices compiled by Bloomberg. It’s now 52 percent below the high of $19,511 reached on Dec. 18.As a caveat, Lee said talk of regulations for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could damp enthusiasm -- a scenario he views as unlikely. “Bottom line: We expect BTC and cryptocurrencies to behave similarly to prior years and rally during Consensus,” he wrote.

2018-05-08T01:49:32.241Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/nyse-owner-ice-is-said-to-be-working-on-bitcoin-trading-platform
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., the owner of New York Stock Exchange, has been working on a trading platform that would let investors bet on Bitcoin, according to two people with knowledge of the project.ICE has held talks with other financial firms about the project, which is still in development, the people said, asking not to be identified because the conversations are confidential. The project could ultimately be aborted. A spokesman for the company declined to comment.Wall Street firms began offering clients futures from Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc. in December, but the financial industry has broadly shied away from selling Bitcoin itself. One issue is that virtual currencies can be stolen by hackers, a problem that has arisen before at some major crypto venues. That means traditional Wall Street firms looking to facilitate investments have to figure out how to hold such assets securely.ICE may offer swaps to big investors that would end with the buyer owning Bitcoin the next day, the New York Times reported earlier Monday, citing four unidentified people briefed on its efforts. Such contracts would put the trading under the purview of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.In an interview last month, ICE Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Sprecher declined to rule out offering contracts based on digital currencies.“There is a trend here we can’t ignore in my mind, so I don’t discount it,” he told Bloomberg Television.Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also has been working on expanding the types of contracts available to investors as it prepares to open a Bitcoin-trading business. The bank will probably trade Bitcoin futures in a principal, market-making capacity and will also create non-deliverable forward products, a person briefed on the decisions said last week.

2018-05-11T09:28:49.913Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-11/cryptocurrency-exchange-upbit-raided-by-south-korean-authorities
South Korean prosecutors raided the offices of Upbit, one of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges.Authorities searched the exchange’s offices on Thursday and Friday, according to an official from the Seoul Southern District Prosecutors’ Office, who asked not to be identified citing office policy. She declined to provide further details of the raid, which was first reported by the Korea Economic Daily.“Upbit is currently under investigation by prosecutors and is cooperating,” the exchange said in a notice to clients, adding that services such as transactions and withdrawals were unaffected and that client assets were safe.The exchange hosted about $1.6 billion of cryptocurrency trades in the past 24 hours, making it the biggest in Korea and the fourth-largest in the world among fee-charging venues tracked by Coinmarketcap.com.South Korea has been cracking down on the cryptocurrency industry to combat excessive speculation and illegal activities such as money laundering, part of a push by governments around the world to rein in digital currency markets. Over the past few months Korean authorities have raided several smaller crypto venues, outlawed initial coin offerings and banned minors, foreigners and financial institutions from domestic exchanges.Read more: Why the Cryptocurrency World Is Watching South KoreaBefore the clampdown, South Korea was something of a ground zero for the global crypto-mania. Volume on local exchanges soared at the end of last year, with Bitcoin and other tokens fetching large premiums in the country relative to international markets. The boom alarmed officials including Prime Minister Lee Nak-yon, who said that cryptocurrencies might corrupt the nation’s youth. Trading activity and prices have since tumbled as authorities tightened restrictions.Bitcoin, the world’s most popular cryptocurrency, dropped 3.6 percent at 11:21 a.m. London time on Friday.

2018-05-07T13:35:45.478Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/buffett-gates-are-latest-bitcoin-critics-halting-10-000-push
Surprise! Bitcoin is getting no love from two of the world’s wealthiest men.“I would short if there was an easy way to do it,” Bill Gates said Monday in an interview on CNBC. Gates said he had previously received some Bitcoin as a birthday present, but sold those a few years later. “As an asset class, you’re not producing anything.”Fellow billionaire and Gates pal Warren Buffett said the largest cryptocurrency is "probably rat poison squared" at Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s annual shareholder meeting on Saturday.The comments may be weighing on Bitcoin’s price as the digital asset slumps 4.2 percent at 9:30 a.m. New York time to $9,273, its first decline in four business days. Bitcoin climbed as much as 50 percent since slumping near $6,500 four weeks ago, but the rally has lost steam before crossing $10,000.Read more: Tracking the Crypto Bulls and BearsSpeculation that U.S. regulators are meeting today to discuss whether Ethereum, the second-largest cryptocurrency, is a security, may also be limiting demand for cryptocurrencies. Ether is down almost 6 percent, and other large digital coins, like Litecoin and Ripple’s XRP, are slumping too.Buffett is echoing the words of his business partner Charles Munger, who in 2014 also compared Bitcoin to rat poison. Gates is walking back some of his earlier optimism from four years ago, when he said Bitcoin is "exciting."

2018-05-11T21:50:30.760Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-11/your-evening-briefing
Americans spend more on prescription drugs than anyone else in the world. On Friday, President Donald Trump released his plan to tackle the issue, calling for increased competition, lifting rules that prevent government programs from  negotiating better drug discounts, and pushing other countries to  pay more. The Trump administration released a plan to lower drug prices by increasing competition for medicines. So far, investors appear unfazed.Trump says other countries benefit unfairly from the high drug prices paid by Americans, but economists say making others pay more won't make Americans pay less. In Bloomberg Opinion, Joe Nocera argues that the best fix for drug prices was already signed into law by President Ronald Reagan 34 years ago. AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson told employees that hiring Michael Cohen as a political consultant was a "big mistake." It cost the company's top lobbyist his job.Stephenson has staked AT&T's future on its acquisition of Time Warner. Trump has said his administration won't approve the deal.Truckers are now in such high demand, shippers are rushing to make them feel more welcome with perks such as spruced-up break rooms and cash incentives.What's Luke Kawa thinking? The Bloomberg Markets reporter is interested in the flatter Treasury curve, with the two-year, 10-year spread closing at fresh cycle lows. That’s not all bad news, he believes, and may have some positive aspects, reflecting renewed demand for U.S. debt from overseas buyers.Mother's Day is the biggest brunch event of the year, but chances are you’re doing it all wrong. Here's how to avert a disaster during the weekend staple some love and others love to hate. 

2018-05-08T14:00:00.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/inflation-could-heat-up-as-populations-age-eco-research-roundup
Monetary policy might not be the be-all and end-all for advanced-economy inflation.A study published by the Bank for International Settlements suggests that a long-running trend -- the portion of the population in its working years -- explains much of the shift in inflation over recent decades, based on data stretching back more than a century and spanning 22 countries. It’s the lead item in this week’s economic research roundup, which also sums up studies on the outlook for big data, a minimum-wage experiment in Malaysia, and the impact of futures trading on Bitcoin. Check this column each week for new papers from around the world.The enduring link between demography and inflationPublished May 2018Available on the BIS websiteHere’s a novel reason to expect higher inflation: population aging. In a working paper that builds on earlier research, Mikael Juselius and Elod Takats look at cross-country variation in inflation and demographics from 1870 to 2016 and find a strong relationship between the dependency ratio -- the share of the population outside of working-age years -- and price increases. Conversely, as the working-age population grows, as it did in the U.S. throughout Baby Boomers’ adolescence and peak working years, inflation slows. In fact, the researchers estimate that the demographic trend accounted for 7 percentage points of the increase in U.S. inflation between the 1950s and 1970s, and then 7 percentage points of disinflation since the 1980s.“The uncovered link is policy-relevant, because global aging will substantially increase the share of the old-age population in almost all countries,” write Juselius, of the Bank of Finland, and the BIS’s Takats. “Our estimates indicate that inflationary pressures are likely to rise in future due to the increasing share of older population cohorts and a declining share of younger ones.”The Big Data Revolution in Economic Statistics: Waiting for Godot... and Government FundingPublished May 6, 2018Available to Goldman Sachs subscribersBig data holds big potential for refining government data and making it faster, but there are also significant barriers preventing rapid improvement. For one, funding for the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- the folks who roll out the monthly U.S. jobs report and consumer price index -- is down 12 percent in real terms over the past decade, Goldman Sachs’s Spencer Hill notes. Plus, the agencies often lack the legal authority to obtain access to new datasets.So what is happening? Hill says that within the next one to three years, he and his colleagues expect the CPI to expand online data collection and potentially reshuffle how it collects data on new cars. The BLS is exploring a worker-level wage dataset that could eventually cover as much as 97 percent of the workforce, and over at the Census Bureau, they might start using credit card data to complement existing surveys (that one is more uncertain).Special Feature: Minimum WagePublished May 7, 2018Available to Maybank research subscribersMalaysia’s experiment this year with a minimum-wage hike will offer another bit of evidence in a long-running debate over just how effective such a measure can be in juicing paychecks without straining employers. Given the direct raises mandated by a hike, as well as the knock-on effects for higher-paid employees, some 72.5 percent of workers will benefit from an anticipated move, according to a research note by Maybank analysts Suhaimi Ilias and Wong Chew Hann.The Southeast Asian economy first implemented a minimum wage in 2014, with a revision in 2016 that brought it just above poverty-line income. The government has signaled that further increases would be under review about every two years. Both the incumbent and opposition parties have promised to raise the minimum wage to 1,500 ringgit ($380) a month over a five-year period, according to the note.Employers already are dealing with a boost to labor costs this year, including from a higher levy for foreign workers. Some 61 percent of those surveyed by a government-associated research institution judged that the move would hurt profits, while 37 percent said it would lead to workforce reductions. The Maybank analysts raised the risk that employers might resort to automation rather than footing the higher labor bills -- a fresh test amid a global questioning around the rise of the robot.How Futures Trading Changed Bitcoin PricesPublished May 7, 2018 Available on the San Francisco Fed websiteBitcoin’s price skyrocketed last year, starting the year around $1,000 and ultimately reaching $19,511 in mid-December. That peak came just as Bitcoin futures started trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and researchers at the San Francisco Fed and Stanford University say the subsequent slump is no coincidence. “The advent of blockchain introduced a new financial instrument, Bitcoin, which optimistic investors bid up, until the launch of Bitcoin futures allowed pessimists to enter the market,” they argue. Before that, pessimists simply had no way to bet on their belief that Bitcoin’s price was headed for a collapse.

2018-05-10T14:19:24.295Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-10/different-rules-for-different-brokers
Bond markups.Last week, when former bond trader Jesse Litvak had his fraud conviction overturned again, I quoted extensively from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit’s description of how the bond market operates. Let’s quote some of that again:The broker-dealer acts solely in its own interest as a principal. The broker-dealer continually tracks potential buyers and sellers, their interests in particular kinds of RMBS, and their ongoing acceptable price ranges. It seeks to profit from transactions in the securities by buying low and selling high. …A broker-dealer is not, therefore, an agent for its counterparties in these trades and owes them no special or fiduciary duty. In a sale by a counterparty to a broker-dealer, the counterparty has no legitimate expectation that the broker-dealer will resell the bond at the price paid to the counterparty. Similarly, in a purchase, the counterparty has no legitimate expectation of purchasing a bond at the price paid by the broker-dealer. Rather, the broker-dealer and counterparty each have their own price ranges in which they will consummate their ends of the transactions. The final price is determined in an arms-length negotiation and, if agreed upon, will be somewhere in the overlap of price ranges.If you are an institutional bond investor, and you ask a dealer to sell you a bond, and the dealer says “sure that’ll be $95,” then all you know about the price of the bond is that the dealer wants to sell it to you at $95. Perhaps the dealer paid $94.75 for it a minute ago. Perhaps she paid $92 last week. Perhaps she paid $70, last month, or a minute ago. Perhaps she paid $97. You could ask, though if you do she is not obligated to tell you. (She probably shouldn’t lie to you, though after the Litvak decision that is in a little bit of doubt.) You should pay a price for the bond that you are willing to pay for the bond. If you are willing to pay $95 and the dealer is willing to take $95 then you have a trade. But the dealer is not your agent, is not working on your behalf, has no duty to make sure that you are paying the correct price. The dealer is trying to make as much money as she can, consistent with her desire to do repeat business, and her knowledge that customers can always price-check with other dealers. Her markup is her business.On the other hand, if you are a retail bond investor, the rule will soon be the opposite:Starting next week, mom-and-pop investors will learn how much their broker made selling them bonds.The change in practice is due to a new rule meant to curb abusive sales practices. Beginning Monday, brokers will have to say how much they pocket when they buy corporate and municipal bonds and sell them to retail investors later that day.There are limits—this rule applies to same-day transactions, that is, essentially, transactions where the dealer goes out and finds bonds to fill a customer order, rather than transactions out of the dealer’s aged inventory—but still it is a different norm.The norms are diverging more generally. We talked last month about the Securities and Exchange Commission’s new “best interests” rules, in which retail brokers will have to “act in the best interest of the retail customer” when recommending investments. This rule would be absurd in the institutional market. “A broker-dealer is not … an agent for its counterparties in these trades and owes them no special or fiduciary duty.” If you are in the business of buying low and selling high, it is hard to also be in the business of looking out for the best interests of the people you’re buying from and selling to. After all, it’s in their interest that you buy high and sell low.There is nothing surprising about any of this. The rule for institutions—caveat emptor, arm’s-length counterparties looking out for their own interests—seems correct, for institutions. If you are a big bond fund you probably have your own view on value, and you have data feeds that can give you a sense of the fair price, and you can check prices with multiple dealer, and if one dealer is ripping you off you can put her in the penalty box, and anyway you are probably playing the dealers against each other so that you can rip them off. The rule for individuals—in which brokers are supposed to look out for their customers’ interests—also seems correct, for individuals. If you are a retail investor you probably have one broker and have to rely on what she tells you. Retail investors expect their broker-dealers to be advisers, institutional investors expect their broker-dealers to be dealers, and the rules really ought to let both sets of investors get what they expect.Of course there are gray areas; some institutions might be the sorts of innocents whom we want to protect from the big bad dealers, while some individuals are sophisticated sharks. Some sorts of big-bad-dealer behavior are borderline in the caveat-emptor institutional world; some sorts of conflict-of-interest management are borderline in the best-interests retail world.But it seems to me that a bigger problem is the risk of reasoning by analogy from one world to another. “Don’t banks have fiduciary duties to their customers,” politicians will ask, because that seems like the sort of thing that would be true of retail customers, so why shouldn’t it be true of institutions? “Our markup is our business, caveat emptor,” retail brokers will say, because that seems to be true for their institutional cousins, so why shouldn’t it be true for them? The point, though, is that you shouldn’t assume that retail brokers should be able to do what institutional brokers can do, or that institutional brokers should be required to do what retail brokers must do. Retail and institutional brokerage are, in important ways, opposite sorts of businesses.Ah, shareholder democracy.What should you do, as a shareholder, if you think guns are bad? Well, you could buy shares in big retailers and then encourage those retailers not to sell guns. You could buy shares in banks and encourage them not to finance gun manufacturers. You could refuse to buy shares in gun manufacturers, thereby driving up those manufacturers’ cost of capital and reducing the production of guns. These all seem like plausible, though incremental, approaches.Or you could buy shares in gun manufacturers and lobby them to stop manufacturing guns. This is a more extreme approach, and I am not convinced that there is a coherent way to do it. For one thing, if you buy shares in a gun manufacturer and tell it to shut down its business, and it does, then you will probably lose your whole investment. (You could tell it to pivot to manufacturing ball bearings or whatever, but presumably the pivot would have substantial costs; presumably gun manufacturers are better suited to manufacturing guns than ball bearings.) Given that obvious problem, you’ll have a hard time getting management to agree to your plan, and you will need to run a proxy fight to replace management; for the same reason, you’ll have a hard time getting other shareholders to vote for your plan. If you have limitless money you could perhaps do it anyway—just buy 51 percent of all the gun manufacturers and shut them down—but even that might not work. Presumably people would just start up new gun manufacturers, and you’d have to pay a premium to acquire them to shut them down, and you’d just keep paying premiums to gun manufacturers and end up subsidizing the gun business.Anyway that concludes my weird hypothetical in which shareholders actually influence the actions of the companies they own. Here meanwhile is real life:Sturm, Ruger & Co. will prepare a report on risks related to the company’s business, following a shareholder vote during the firearms manufacturer’s annual meeting on Wednesday afternoon. The vote does not require the company to change the products it manufactures. “The proposal requires Ruger to prepare a report. That's it: a report,” said chief executive officer Christopher John Killoy. “The shareholders have spoken and we will follow through on our obligation to prepare that report in due course. What the proposal does not and cannot do is force us to change our business, which is lawful and constitutionally protected.”The lead filer of the proposal was Colleen Scanlon of Catholic Health Initiatives, who was joined by a variety of other investors, many affiliated with religious groups.Imagine being so concerned about gun violence that you … buy shares in a gun manufacturer and … vote for it to … produce a report … about manufacturing guns? You could just not own gun manufacturers, you know? I wrote yesterday that embarrassment “seems to be the principal mechanism of corporate governance,” but I cannot see how this report would embarrass Sturm Ruger into changing its business. (As the CEO said!) Really the shareholders should be embarrassed here.Oh you know.I don’t want to tell you how to live your life, and I don’t hold myself out as an expert on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or anything, but if you are doing business in a country in the developing world, and your business is politically sensitive and depends on the goodwill of the country’s president, and you decide to start paying $100,000 a month to some guy with nebulous skills and no knowledge of your industry who happens to have a close business and personal relationship with that president, and this comes out, and people ask you what those payments were for—I hope you have a better answer than “access”? “Access” is the bad answer! I mean, of course the payments were for access. But you are not supposed to say that. You might as well just say “bribes, it was bribes.”Anyway here’s some crazy stuff:When Michael Cohen approached the global health care company Novartis AG to hire him shortly after his longtime boss and client Donald Trump arrived at the White House, Cohen promised one thing: access, a company spokesman told ABC News.“He promised access to the new administration,” Eric Althoff, a spokesman for the company said. “Keep in mind – it was a whole new environment and the usual players were no longer in [their] role.”For that access, the company paid Cohen $1.2 million, Althoff said. … He said the company soon became convinced that Cohen would not be able “to provide the services that Novartis had anticipated related to U.S. healthcare policy matters and the decision was taken not to engage further.”Yet, the company said it continued to pay Cohen because the contract could be terminated only for cause.“Basically the company did not feel that he could provide the access [he claimed]," Althoff said.AT&T Inc. also threw some money Cohen’s way, though it at least had the good taste to say it was paying for “insights” rather than “access.”I mean, again, this is not legal advice. “You can pay money to get access to politics and curry favor -- you just can’t pay money to get an official action,” says a former federal prosecutor. It is certainly unseemly, but I guess that is a silly thing to worry about these days. “One of the great arbitrages in finance—in life—is being immune to embarrassment,” I wrote, yesterday. It serves me right. It could be worse. For instance: This is worse.The Avenatti memo also said Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. made a $150,000 payment to Mr. Cohen in November 2017. Korea Aerospace said it hired Essential for legal counseling regarding U.S. accounting standards.Hahaha no. No. No.The crypto.The nice thing about Bitcoin is that since transactions occur on the blockchain, settlement is instantaneous; you are not beholden to the slow archaic money-transfer processes of the traditional banking system. No just kidding here’s how you spend your Bitcoins if you rely on Xapo, Wences Casares’s startup, to keep them safe:At Xapo, retrieving Bitcoin from the vault takes about two days. The company verifies a client’s identity and authenticates the request before manually signing the transactions with private keys from multiple vault locations. Approval from three separate vaults is required for any transactions to be authorized.There are literal underground vaults—“including one in a decommissioned Swiss military bunker”—to demonstrate how seriously they take security for this entirely digital currency, and how much you should trust them to hold your trustless currency. Elsewhere here is Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP on the problem of Bitcoin fungibility, in which the relative ease of tracing Bitcoin transactions creates a risk that some Bitcoins (stolen ones, ones that have previously been used for illicit purposes or been owned by sanctioned actors, etc.) might be worth less than others:A possible future for bitcoin is one in which the old banknote lists return in 21st-century form—bitcoin from a particular address would be graded based on its transaction history and relative distance from flagged transactions or blacklisted addresses. For example, as generally described by JP Koning, Grade A bitcoin would be “fresh” bitcoin, purchased directly from a miner and would trade at a premium. Grade D bitcoin, meanwhile, may have passed through a blacklisted address and trade at a significant discount. In between are bitcoin that are not closely associated with a blacklisted address or that have been “cleaned” by passing through a bitcoin mixing service that makes tracing more difficult. Such grading schemes could easily become enormously complex given that bitcoin easily moves across borders, and various jurisdictions could have overlapping or inconsistent blacklists, tort laws, AML/KYC requirements, and laws particular to digital assets. This type of regime could lead to a market where any large bitcoin transaction would require a bespoke appraisal. Further, because bitcoin do not go out of circulation, bitcoin will “age,” becoming less valuable over time as each transaction makes it more likely that it will pass through a tainted address. All told, fungibility issues could easily become a substantial limiting factor on bitcoin’s usefulness as a currency.I find this extremely improbable, since the problem theoretically exists now—you can trace Bitcoins and see if they come from bad places—but everyone just treats them as fungible anyway. If Bitcoin is widely used, it seems like a no-brainer for law and custom to continue that norm.  Things happen.Spending at World’s Biggest Tech Fund Exceeds Even Its Own Ambitions. Wells Fargo Improperly Kept a Pension Fund’s Fee Rebates. Snap CEO Is Crowned the King of Pay for 2017 With $505 Million. Anbang Insurance Founder’s Stunning Fall Ends With 18-Year Prison Term. Goldman Sachs Stuck With Burberry Shares After Billionaire Sale. BlackRock Backs a Startup to Find Out What Young Investors Want. David Swensen’s angry email. Charlie Gasparino Bought Gary Cohn a Shirley Temple. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-11T20:38:44.819Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-11/trump-s-drug-price-plan-is-a-dud
Welcome to Bloomberg Opinion Today, an afternoon roundup of our opinions on business, politics, markets, technology and more. New subscribers can sign up here. Stocks slept. David Tepper might buy the Panthers. Bitcoin faces the dreaded Death Cross.U.S. prescription-drug prices are outrageous. This is so obvious it offers rare common ground for people on both sides of the political divide. One of President Donald Trump’s most effective 2016 pitches was his pledge to do something about it.But the plan Trump announced today avoided big moves and tough decisions, Max Nisen writes. For example, he could have fulfilled a campaign pledge to have the government negotiate prices on behalf of patients. Instead, his plan proposes modest tweaks to Medicare Part D. That’s better than nothing, but a missed opportunity for bigger savings. Other proposals similarly nibble at the problem. None match the tough rhetoric Trump aimed at everyone from drugmakers to “middle men” and foreigners who don’t have to pay exorbitant prices for American-made drugs.Here’s the stock-price action of one “middle man,” Express Scripts Holding Co., a pharmacy benefit manager:That price collapse marks when Trump started complaining about “middle men” in his speech today. The recovery marks when Trump stopped talking and investors realized nothing truly awful was going to happen to them. Shares of other PBMs and drugmakers also finished the day higher.Joe Nocera argues there’s already a great drug-price-slashing tool lying around, if anybody wants to sharpen it and start swinging: the 34-year-old Hatch-Waxman Act. This law set time limits on patent protections and encouraged new generic drugs. It worked for about 20 years, Joe says. But then, naturally, companies learned to get around it, with “patent fortresses” and other shenanigans. Joe suggests some simple updates to the law could solve many problems.Austin Frakt proposes having the nonprofit Institute for Clinical and Economic Review analyze new drugs to figure out their true value. That would be a guideline for drugmakers and payers to agree on a semi-reasonable price. These are all great ideas! They weren’t in the president’s plan. Malaysians just overcame massive “gerrymandering, nativist appeals, a muzzled press and concerted efforts to depress the vote” to throw out their country’s ruling coalition for the first time in 60 years. It’s time to restore the country’s institutions and give voters the real change they obviously want, Bloomberg’s editors write.Iraq holds parliamentary elections this weekend. But their outcome won’t be decided until much later, thanks to the huge mess U.S. and Iranian meddling made of Iraq’s political system, warns Hussein Ibish.Messing with Iraq has been a rare area of agreement for the U.S. and Iran for the past 65 years. For most of that time, the U.S. has been either messing with Iran or dealing with the blowback, writes Pankaj Mishra. Trump’s nuclear-deal gambit is just the latest episode.Joe Nocera takes a deep dive into one man’s nightmarish experience working with a Russian company:“The story I’m about to tell is one of those tales that make you wonder why anybody does business in Russia. It’s a country that really doesn’t play by anybody’s rules but its own.”Democrats don’t want to think about the dark side of Watergate’s legacy, but they must, warns Sam Tanenhaus. History may see Richard Nixon’s defenestration as a triumph of the rule of law, but many conservatives never stopped stewing about it, considering it an undemocratic negation of a landslide election. Many won’t let Trump suffer the same fate so easily.Banks have been cutting their rainy-day funds because obviously it will never rain again, Stephen Gandel writes.We need a better, scarier, more descriptive term for anthropogenic climate change than “anthropogenic climate change.” – Faye FlamIf you want gun makers to change their ways, then you could a) buy a bunch of shares in them and try to use your miniscule new leverage to force them to change. Or you could b) take the Occam’s Razor approach and not do that – Matt Levine (sign up for Matt’s newsletter here)The first step to better investing is admitting what you don’t know. – Barry Ritholtz (sign up for Barry’s newsletter here)It’s been two years. Maybe it’s time for the UK to figure out what “Brexit” really means? – Therese RaphaelWho’s been right on China so far? Not Maoists, not Western liberals. It’s Karl Marx. – Tyler CowenSpace needs a traffic cop. American baby names have a lot of vowels lately. In Bolivia’s navy, you can sail zero seas.Corrections: Yesterday’s letter misspelled “invitations” and forgot the link to Justin Fox’s story on lumber tariffs.Note: Please send drugs, suggestions and kicker ideas to Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.net.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Timothy L. O'Brien at tobrien46@bloomberg.net

2018-05-07T01:38:20.288Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/new-crypto-exchanges-don-t-want-to-hold-your-money-quicktake
Just as stocks are untradable without an exchange, the same is true for Bitcoin and other digital currencies. That has made crypto exchanges a crucial -- and sometimes problematic -- element of the rapidly emerging world of digital currencies. On the surface, they look a lot like stock markets, matching buyers with sellers and publishing prices. Yet in many ways they differ vastly, potentially exposing investors to risks they may not fully appreciate. That’s worrying regulators and prompting new exchanges to come up with ways to mitigate the dangers.They share a key function, as places to trade assets, but the similarity ends there. Crypto exchanges both hold an investor’s assets and charge brokerage commissions, functions that are normally segregated in the world of stocks. That helps to make many exchanges highly lucrative, as do the fact the fees they charge are fatter than traditional bourses’. For example, Japan’s second-biggest crypto venue, Coincheck Inc., was almost as profitable in 2017 as Japan Exchange Group, operator of the nation’s biggest stocks and derivatives markets. Another crucial difference: While stock markets are tightly regulated, their digital-asset counterparts so far have very little, if any, supervision in most jurisdictions.Put simply, the protections seen in the stock-trading world don’t exist for cryptocurrencies. The biggest potential danger for an investor is losing an entire investment, whether through theft by hackers from the exchange holding the assets or by the bourse going out of business. Among the most recent cyberthefts, Coincheck had nearly $500 million in digital tokens stolen in January. Half a dozen or more of the largest exchanges have failed since mid-2014, some following a hack (including Mt. Gox, once the world’s No. 1 exchange), others after being shut down by the authorities. CoinMarketCap listed 217 major crypto exchanges as of May 3.Top 10 cryptocurrency exchanges account for about half of trading volumeSource: Coinmarketcap.com data for 24 hours through May 3, 2018, 5pm Hong Kong timeThey can keep digital tokens away from exchanges and store them offline, in what’s known as cold storage. However, in reality, they don’t tend to. It’s impractical for frequent traders, who will spread their holdings across several exchanges, according to Henri Arslanian, financial and regulation technology head at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC in Hong Kong. Some platforms are trying to raise standards: Gemini Trust Co., hired Nasdaq Inc. to monitor for potentially abusive trading in Bitcoin and Ether.Authorities around the world are only slowly waking up to the opportunities and dangers of crypto trading, and their responses have been mixed. While Japan introduced a licensing system for digital-asset exchanges last year, China, once the global center of crypto activity, is now undertaking the most strident crackdown. The tiny Mediterranean island state of Malta is compiling a framework to regulate the sector in a bid to establish itself as a hub for cryptocurrencies.There have been widespread and repeated warnings to investors, particularly about volatile prices and the risk of losing everything. Many regulators have also warned exchanges not to list tokens that would be considered securities under local law. Bank of England governor Mark Carney said in March it was time to end cryptocurrency “anarchy” and hold the industry to the same standards as the rest of the financial system. In April, New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman wrote to 13 exchanges seeking information about their internal controls and how they protect customers. The head of the Kraken bourse, Jesse Powell, slammed his efforts and said that licensing, regulation and market manipulation didn’t matter to most crypto traders.By fundamentally changing. A new generation is emerging, one that hues more closely to blockchain’s original libertarian ideals and that also threatens to overhaul crypto markets. Known as decentralized cryptocurrency exchanges, these new venues don’t hold client assets and do little more than put buyers and sellers together, leaving the actual transaction to the investors. The system is essentially a peer-to-peer platform and will be more transparent in operations and fees than the current exchange model, according to one of its proponents, Kelvin Wong, head of communications at OAX Foundation, a Hong Kong-based decentralized exchange developer.That depends who you ask. Sam Tabar, strategist at AirSwap, which opened a decentralized venue in April, predicts that traders migrating to the new model will be this year’s big crypto story. But others such as Chia Hock Lai, president of the Singapore Fintech Association, say the new types of bourse have their own particular issues, such as an inferior user experience and lower levels of technical support. For David Lee, author of the Handbook of Digital Currency, decentralized venues will in five to 10 years become the main avenue for trading cryptocurrencies.

2018-05-07T18:21:23.376Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/oracle-rolling-out-blockchain-products-as-soon-as-this-month
Oracle Corp. will unveil its blockchain software starting this month, joining the growing list of companies offering products that use the digital-ledger technology behind Bitcoin.The Redwood City, California-based company will introduce a platform-as-a-service blockchain product this month and decentralized ledger-based applications next month, Thomas Kurian, president of product development, said Monday at Oracle headquarters. Blockchain is essentially a spreadsheet that’s duplicated and updated regularly across thousands of computers over the internet. The structure eliminates risks that come with information held centrally by a single entity, like cloud-computing providers.The world’s second-largest software company is working with Banco de Chile to log inter-bank transactions on a hyperledger, Kurian said. Another client is the government of Nigeria, which has sought to document customs and import duties on blockchain. Oracle’s products will also be pitched to pharmaceutical companies to track and trace batches of medicine, which may potentially ease recalls.Behind the hype of cryptocurrencies, software companies have raced to leverage the blockchain’s ledger model to simplify processes. Salesforce.com Inc. Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said in March that his company wants to unveil a blockchain product by its annual Dreamforce conference this fall. International Business Machines Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.’s cloud unit have also both sought enterprise uses for blockchain technology. Kurian said Oracle’s products will be compatible with other platforms.— With assistance by Julie Verhage

2018-05-11T04:00:04.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-11/cyberwar-how-nations-attack-without-bullets-or-bombs-quicktake
When the U.S., U.K. and France attacked Syria in April to punish the government for its alleged use of chemical weapons, there was concern about possible retaliation on a very different battleground. Syria’s patrons, Russia and Iran, are among the world’s leading practitioners of cyberwarfare, or state-sponsored attacks on computer networks and the myriad activities they guide. So far, there have been no public reports of cyberattacks specifically designed as retribution against the coalition that struck Syria. Then again, it’s hard to know when and where cyberwarfare occurs, and by whom.Generally speaking, the term is applied to a cyberattack that has the backing of one nation with the intent of hurting another. "Although there is no clear doctrinal definition of ‘cyberwarfare,’" the U.S. Congressional Research Service said in a 2015 report, "it is typically conceptualized as state-on-state action equivalent to an armed attack or use of force in cyberspace that may trigger a military response."Any of the most common methods of cyber misconduct, including infecting a computer system with malware, holding it hostage with ransomware, disabling it with a flood of messages (a so-called denial of service attack) or hacking data for the purpose of espionage. A more extreme example might be a cyberattack that aims to sabotage, say, the test launching of missiles. Real-life examples include Russia’s manipulation of social media to sway Western elections, most notably the 2016 U.S. presidential vote, and the so-called Stuxnet worm, said to have been developed by the U.S. National Security Agency and Israeli intelligence, that sabotaged Iranian nuclear centrifuges starting in 2009.Information security incidents reported by government agencies to the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team each fiscal year ending Sept. 30Data: U.S. Government Accountability Office; graphic by Bloomberg QuickTake. Note: Beginning in fiscal 2016, agencies were no longer required to report less threatening incidents, such as scans and failed attempts at access. Noncomparable figures for fiscal 2016 and 2017 were 30,899 and 35,277 respectively.If influencing elections seems relatively tame, consider what full-blown cyberwarfare could mean: the complete and prolonged shutdown of a power grid (something that has struck Ukraine twice, presumably at the hands of Russia cyberwarriors); the wipeout of data centers by malware that overheats circuits; the scrambling of bank records to cause financial panic (a 2013 attack froze three major South Korean banks); interference with the safe operations of dams and nuclear plants; or blinding of radar and targeting systems of fighter jets. A March alert from the Department of Homeland Security and Federal Bureau of Investigation warned that Russian government cyber actors have targeted "government entities and multiple U.S. critical infrastructure sectors," including energy, water and aviation.In addition to Russia and the U.S., nations with active cyberwarfare programs are thought to include China, Israel, the U.K., Iran and North Korea.Sometimes. The U.S. and other large countries have established cyberwarfare units, which conduct intelligence-gathering operations and support military missions. But the Russian "troll farms" that are accused of meddling in the 2016 U.S. elections are separate entities that engage in what’s known as information warfare -- the art of manipulating the opinions of members of the public or people in power. These can be actors who are working independently of a government agency or as contractors who are able to maintain arms-length distance (for deniability reasons) from their sponsoring organizations. North Korea’s notorious hacker army is believed to have begun as part of the military. Its specialty, somewhat uniquely, is earning money for the ruling regime.In North Korea’s case, the methods range from the theft of bank-card data to much larger schemes. North Korea’s hackers are suspected to have been behind the theft of $60 million from Taiwan’s Far Eastern International Bank in October 2017. And the U.S. said North Korea was behind the May 2017 WannaCry cyberattack that froze thousands of computer systems around the world, including at many corporations and the U.K.’s National Health Service, demanding $300 in bitcoin from each victim to remove the encryption. It’s unclear how much these attackers collected.The traditional form of international conflict -- between armies firing bullets and bombs -- is guided by rules of war that date back centuries and are meant to reduce civilian suffering. Terrorist attacks meant to kill and scare civilians could be considered the polar opposite of that. Cyberwarfare sits somewhere in the middle. In 2013, a think tank affiliated with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization published a 282-page manual that attempts to apply existing law to cyberwarfare -- defining which targets are off-limits (schools and hospitals, for example) and under what circumstances a country can respond to a hack attack with military force. But as the Tallinn Manual (named for the Estonian capital, where the think tank is based) itself notes, it "is not an official document" and "must be understood only as an expression of the opinions of two international groups of experts as to the state of the law."In April, dozens of technology companies including Microsoft Corp. and Facebook Inc. agreed they will "not help governments launch cyberattacks against innocent citizens and enterprises." Their so-called Cybersecurity Tech Accord was likened to a digital version of the Geneva Conventions, the international agreements that guide humanitarian treatment during war.

2018-05-11T14:38:14.808Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-11/robots-can-price-your-bonds-for-you
Bond pricing.Let’s say you’re the chief financial officer of a company with some bonds outstanding, and you want to issue some new bonds, and you are trying to figure out what interest rate you’ll have to pay on the new bonds. How can you do that? The traditional way to do it is to open up your office door, where you will find a pack of investment bankers waiting to talk to you. Each of them will have a pitchbook, and in each pitchbook there will be a page that says “Indicative new-issue pricing for XYZ Corp.” (if they’re careful they will have replaced “XYZ Corp.” with the name of your company), and you can just look at that pricing and have a decent idea of what new bonds will cost you. If you turn the page, you will probably see some supporting data—charts of the yields on your existing bonds, new-issue concessions for other recent issuers in your sector with similar credit ratings, etc.—which serves both to justify the indicative pricing and to show you how much work the banks have done for you and how grateful you should be to them.The alternative way to do it—which is somewhat common at big sophisticated frequent bond issuers—is to just go find that supporting data, look at it, and draw your own conclusions. If you have a lot of bonds outstanding and they trade a lot, then the trading levels of those bonds will give you a pretty good indication of what interest rate you’d pay on a new bond. If you have long and recent experience of issuing new bonds, and of observing your competitors who issue bonds, you’ll probably have some feel for how much extra you’d pay over those trading levels to do a new bond. It is not exactly rocket science, and if you’ve been doing this long enough, and paying enough attention, you may have as good a feel for it as your bankers do. And so you will rely less on bankers. I mean, you’ll still hire bankers to do your bond deal, but your relationship with them will be more commoditized. You won’t feel any gratitude to them for making pretty charts of where your bonds trade. You know where your bonds trade.But most companies aren’t big sophisticated frequent bond issuers, and most CFOs have better things to do than pay attention to bond trading levels and new-issue concessions, and it is perfectly sensible for them to rely on the expertise of their investment bankers. The investment bankers spend all day thinking about bonds; of course they know more about bonds than the issuers do. They are getting paid for that expertise, and that expertise consists not merely of raw knowledge—the trading levels of comparable bonds, the database of recent deals—but also of a certain Fingerspitzengefühl, an intuitive sense of the market that comes from long experience collecting and interpreting that knowledge.Some of that stuff just seems real, real easy to teach a robot though:Overbond, a financial-technology startup in Toronto, wants to change all that. ...Its main offering is a set of machine-learning algorithms powered by neural networks, a type of artificial intelligence, that predict the timing and pricing of new bond issues. The service is already fully in place for the Canadian corporate-bond market, and partly so for the American one. The algorithms crunch through credit ratings and real-time data on secondary trading for a firm and its peers, among other things. Recent predictions for the yield on new bond issues have been, on average, off by less than 0.02 percentage points.A subscription buys tailored estimates of demand for new bonds, including the interest rate the market is willing to bear. This helps corporate treasurers gauge market conditions and decide when to issue bonds and in what maturity. Of the 200 or so Canadian corporations that issue debt frequently, 81 are signed up.I am sure that the neural networks are very smart and deep, but you could write a dumb simple algorithm (take the spreads on the issuer’s liquid bonds closest in maturity to the proposed new bond, interpolate, add that spread to the Treasury rate with the right maturity, average the new-issue concessions on the last few deals with similar credit ratings, add that to your rate, stop) that gets you much of the way there. The question here is not “how can I write a symphony that will achieve immortality” or “how can we achieve the greatest good for the greatest number of people” or “how can I win the heart of my beloved?” It is “here are the prices of a bunch of bonds, what should the price of a similar bond be?” A computer really should be able to figure that out.Again, this is not all that debt issuers rely on banks for. Even once you know what your bond should cost, you still gotta hire a bank to actually underwrite it. And when you do, you’re not just paying the bank for its expertise and market knowledge. Mostly you’re paying it for its contact list—it has to call up investors and sell them the bonds for you—as well as repaying it for doing previous undercompensated work (or making previous undercompensated loans) to you. You’re also paying for all sorts of other bank-y expertise and skills and processes—writing the bond offering documents, collecting money from buyers and wiring it to you, etc.—that are hard to get anywhere else.Still, debt capital markets bankers might find this all just a little bit disturbing. The contact lists could be automated too. Whatever investment banks are actually selling, a big part of what they think they’re selling—what they hold themselves out as selling, what they sell themselves as selling—is financial expertise. When companies want to interact with financial markets, they go to investment banks, because the investment bankers know the financial markets. Some of that knowledge of financial markets is subtle and intuitive and multifaceted and hard to reduce to an algorithm, or even a neural network. But a lot of it … probably … isn’t? If computers can know the market better than the bankers do, the case for the bankers is undercut.Deutsche Bank.One problem with Deutsche Bank’s constant strategy changes, as it tries to figure out if it will fight to remain an ambitious global full-service bank or (the current plan) retrench to be “more Deutsche, less bank,” is that you get a lot of this:The U.S. division, for example, will probably end up firing some of the dealmakers it lured with multimillion-dollar compensation packages in recent years, according to executives, who, like others inside Deutsche Bank, spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid jeopardizing their careers.Already last week, the bank told staff it would close its Houston office. Not even four years ago, it made a big investment in that business, poaching a team of oil and gas bankers from Citigroup Inc. One senior executive emphasized that the bank still views its presence in New York, San Francisco and Chicago as indispensable for its corporate finance units.Oops! On the one hand, you must feel a bit silly if you were recently poached by Deutsche Bank into a business that it is now shutting down. On the other hand, presumably those “multimillion-dollar compensation packages” were meant, in part, to pay for just this uncertainty. If you were poached by Deutsche Bank during a previous strategy, presumably you knew that things were unstable and charged it a premium for that instability. You sold Deutsche the option to get rid of you, and now that option is paying out, but I hope you at least charged for it.“People close to the firm said job cuts may be expanded to affect about 20 percent of the U.S. workforce,” which seems like a lot in a basically benign environment for banks. “Employees who remain should feel encouraged by the overhaul, which in many areas will focus on underperformers, said Mark Fedorcik, co-head of the investment bank’s operations in the Americas, in an interview on Thursday.” I am not sure! Surviving layoffs in a core business is encouraging: If you are confident that the bank needs to keep someone around, and they keep you around while firing other people, then that’s a good sign that you’re indispensable. Surviving layoffs in a disappearing business just prolongs the agony: If you’re worried that the bank won’t keep anyone around, you might as well get it over with; the people who go first often get the best severance packages and the easiest time getting jobs elsewhere. And this is Deutsche Bank’s “fourth global turnaround plan in three years,” so I don’t know why you’d take anything as a particularly long-term signal.Elsewhere in personnel moves, here is a story about how Bank of America Corp. employees in London are not excited to move to Dublin, “after observing the trajectories of BofA staff who moved to Chester.” Still it could be worse: Not all BofA are disparaging about Dublin. One said he’d keep an open mind. Another suggested that a move to the Irish capital would at least be better than a move to Charlotte, North Carolina, where BofA’s head office is based.The crypto. I read occasionally about how blockchain technology will allow companies to “tokenize” their shares, but I never quite understand why they would want to, beyond the general notion that everything is better on the blockchain. Here’s one story like that: “The blockchain wing of Morgan Creek Capital Management, an investment advisor, announced Wednesday that it is working with Anexio Technology Services to convert all of its physical shares into an ERC-20 token.”"By tokenizing the business, we took the cap table, the paper shares - every company in the world has paper share certificates - and we tokenized it. We swapped, one for one, the paper shares for tokens, which allow for a global investor base and trades on a security exchange."Oh come on. Yes, finally, unlike trading in Apple Inc. stock, where you have to laboriously transport around paper stock certificates, which limits trading to people within a few blocks of each other in Lower Manhattan, these blockchain people have finally found a way to allow for electronic global trading on a securities exchange. We talk sometimes around here about how cryptocurrencies keep rediscovering the basic ideas in finance, but I guess you can make that look more impressive by just pretending that no one else has discovered them. Elsewhere: “A lot of people were looking for ways to spend their cryptocurrencies,” is a sentence in this article, and you will need a stronger stomach than I have if you want to find out what they came up with. And: “This Cryptocurrency Billionaire Is Trying to Split California Into Three States.” I guess that’s an appropriately silly way to spend cryptocurrencies, though I would like to think that if I was a Bitcoin zillionaire I would try to split April into three months or put Rhode Island on the moon or increase the atomic mass of cobalt or something. And: “Nvidia Corp. revealed for the first time how much revenue it generated from chip sales to the cryptocurrency market—and said that figure will be much smaller in the second quarter.” And: “What’s the Deal With Facebook and the Blockchain?” I don’t know, but good lord, I hope it is anything but this:At least one cryptoblogger speculated that Facebook might launch its own tokens and distribute them to shareholders and users. Users whose posts hit some kind of engagement metric would earn tokens. If users held FaceBucks, or whatever they're called, they’d have a personal financial stake in the platform’s success. Bond marking.Here is a(n alleged) scam that I would not have thought of. Actually let’s start with a more basic obvious scam. Let’s say you are a hedge fund and you have some weird bonds worth $50. You get paid a management fee that is calculated as a percentage of your assets under management; the more the bonds are worth, the higher that fee is. You also get paid a performance fee that is calculated as a percentage of your performance; the more the bonds are worth, the better your performance is. Also of course the better your performance, the more likely your investors will be to stick with you, and the higher your fees will be. All in all you’d rather have the bonds be worth $60 than $50. But the bonds are worth $50. But they don’t trade very much. The way you know they’re worth $50 is basically because you ask some dealers and the dealers say “I’d bid $48 for them and offer them at $52,” and you take the midpoint and call it $50. But you could ask different dealers. You could for instance ask dealers who do a lot of business with you and who owe you a favor. They could just say “I’d bid $58 for them and offer them at $62.” If you then say “okay fine sold to you for $58,” then the dealer would be pretty annoyed, but if the dealer was confident that you were just asking for the bid to fake your books, and not to trade, then maybe he’d do you a favor. I mean it is not advisable, for him, or for you, but it clearly happens from time to time.Anyway that is all a fairly standard scam. But let’s say, instead of being worth $50, your bonds are worth, like, $5. For instance they might be weird bits of mortgage-backed securities that don’t trade anywhere near 100 cents on the dollar. Then you might go out to dealers and get quotes and come back with quotes of, say, $4.75 bid at $5.25 offered. That 50-cent spread is 10 percent of fair value, which is pretty wide, but remember these are creepy weird bonds. Here’s the scam I wouldn’t have thought of. Instead of just taking the midpoint of the bid and ask and saying that the bonds are worth $5, you could take just the bid, and add a “normal” bid-ask spread to it to get an “imputed” ask, and then figure out an “imputed” midpoint between the two, and use that as your fair value. For instance, if the average mortgage-backed security has a bid-ask spread of, say, $3, then you could assume that your bonds are $4.75 bid at $7.75 offered, for a midpoint of $6.25. Is this legitimate? Hahaha no, not really, but it is surprising. Like, you just wouldn’t expect that to be a scam, or to work. Here’s how the Securities and Exchange Commission describes it, in its lawsuit against an investment adviser called Premium Point Investments LP:Unbeknownst to at least most investors, Premium Point itself routinely derived, or “imputed,” the mid-point prices of securities, even where Premium Point could easily obtain a midpoint price for the security from a broker. To do so, Premium Point took a bid price for a particular security and added half the spread between the bid and ask prices on a broad sector of securities— not the spread on that particular security—to “impute” a mid-point price for that security.When you just read it like that it sounds conservative. You would expect weird illiquid securities to have wider bid-ask spreads than “a broad sector of securities.” If the broad sector has a $3 spread, and your bond is weird and rarely trades, you might expect it to have a $6 spread, say $47 at $53. Just taking the bid ($47) and adding half the “normal” spread ($1.50) to it gets you a fair value ($48.50) that is lower than the actual fair value.The trick is that if you do this with very low-dollar-price bonds you get absurd results. Also you can combine it with the first trick (inflating the bid) to get even more absurd results. The SEC gives an example of one bond where a pricing service provided a $2.63 midpoint price, Premium Point allegedly got a friendly brokerage to provide a bid of $4, and then it allegedly applied an average bid-ask spread of $3.68 for the bond’s sector—a bid-ask spread wider than the price of the bond—to get a $5.84 “imputed mid-point price.”I don’t know, it’s just an impressive bit of (alleged) nonsense. The rest of the complaint is not terrible either:For example, in July 2015, Majidi told Shor: “[W]e need to show performance…. [W]e’re like the bottom third of hedge funds.”Similarly, in October 2015, Majidi told Shor: “I mean, if we show down 3% this month [in one of our portfolios], game over…. [The investor] would do a complete redemption.”And:In one conversation with Majidi in approximately January 2016, Shor said: “I am overmarked by a bunch of millions… I am at 3 [dollar spread] on 6 dollar bonds…”Things happen.Leveraged Loan Safety Net May Prove to Be Frayed for Investors. Bond investors do not care if Argentina is solvent in 100 years. Record Buybacks Help Steady Wobbly Market. In the Long Run, Fear of Short-Termism Is Mostly Bunk. JP Morgan revamps its stock trading business in a sign of the changes sweeping through Wall Street. JPMorgan applies to re-enter China securities market. Goldman Sachs, Apple Team Up on New Credit Card. Wells Fargo Says It Will Take More Time Before It Can Grow. Barclays CEO Fined About $870,000 on Whistle-Blower Incident. Eight of 20 Best-Paid CEOs of 2017 Are No Longer on the Job. U.S. Raises Pressure on Iran With Sanctions on Currency Exchange. “Private equity is of two minds about the work that it does. It’s not quite sure if it wants to believe its own self-justification or if ambient societal criticism has some merit.” “The next generation of burger lovers is looking for a more food-forward, cosmopolitan approach.” Hitler-loving stalker sent guy 65K texts after one date: cops. Man Allegedly Used Change Of Address Form To Move UPS Headquarters To His Apartment. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-09T23:57:32.544Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-09/your-evening-briefing
President Donald Trump has turned his attention to securing a peace agreement with North Korea, which just released three detained Americans. Meanwhile, the European Union is desperately trying to hold the Iran nuclear accord together. Trump's decision to exit the pact left companies—which originally rushed to do business with Iran—scrambling to get out.European signatories to the Iran agreement insist the deal isn't dead, it's just down a member. But companies doing business in Iran are already looking for the exits.The Kremlin said it's "extremely important" that Trump and President Vladimir Putin meet in order to safeguard global stability in the aftermath of the American exit from the nuclear accord.  Companies are rushing to explain how they came to deposit money in the account of Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen. We're keeping track of Trump's legal risks here.Bloomberg Opinion columnist Timothy L. O'Brien says the payments were likely made "for the same, old-fashioned reason money usually changes hand in places like New York and Washington: self-interest." Walmart spent $16 billion to buy a controlling stake in Flipkart, India's biggest online seller. Wall Street seems skeptical of the deal, and shares dropped as much as 4.2 percent. Oil surged past $71 for the first time since 2014 as American stockpiles shrank and the U.S. told buyers they have six months to curb their purchases from Iran. What's Joe Weisenthal thinking? The Bloomberg Markets executive editor is defending the state of the Japanese economy. The lesson we can learn, he says, is that massive government debt and a huge central-bank balance sheet can also be a recipe for low unemployment and low inflation.A Picasso nude fetched $115 million at auction. Painted in 1905 during the artist's Rose Period, "Young Girl with a Flower Basket" once belonged to Gertrude Stein, the American writer and collector who was friends with Picasso and other artists in early 20th-century Paris. Her brother Leo bought the painting for $30 the same year it was made, according to Christie's.

2018-05-10T11:00:20.373Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2018-05-10/this-cryptocurrency-billionaire-is-trying-to-split-california-into-three-states
Tim Draper, the billionaire venture capitalist and legend in the world of cryptocurrency, has an idea: Let’s split California into three separate states.There are at least five reasons why this idea is doomed from the start, but first, here’s his case:The way Draper sees it, smaller states would be run by more efficient and less bureaucratic governments as they compete for residents and business. Education, safety, infrastructure and health care would improve. Taxes would be lower. And the investor who made a name for himself funding tech giants like Hotmail, Skype and Tesla Inc. says he “won’t have to think anymore about moving myself, Draper Associates, the Draper Venture Network and Draper University out of California.”Draper — who scored a huge windfall a few years back when he bought a load of bitcoin that had been seized by the U.S. government— has gone from being a Democrat to Republican to Libertarian to, well, his own party that believes California’s government’s problem is that it lacks competition. The party platform is simple: break up California.Draper says he’s already gathered more than 600,000 signatures for his initiative, almost double the number he needs to get his plan on the ballot come Election Day. He still needs to get the signatures verified and confirmed by counties by June 13.“My goal is to get it on the ballot, and then it is up to Californians to see the beauty of a new empowerment, and run with it,’’ Draper said by email. Meanwhile, here’s what he's got going against him:The last time the U.S. approved the breakup of a state was in 1863, when West Virginia moved to split with Virginia at the height of the Civil War. Even then, it took a two-year legal battle and presidential approval.President Abraham Lincoln eventually signed off on the split, but he worried at the time about the precedent it would set for states going forward. Needless to say, there is no clear process for a breakup of a state.Even if Draper gets California’s voters to buy into the idea of a split, government law experts say the plan would probably take an act of Congress. (Again, there’s no clear-cut process.) And there’s no indication that Republicans in Washington would be amenable to a breakup.If each of the three new California states – with a population of about 12 million to 14 million people – were granted two senators, Congress could be welcoming more Democrats into its chambers. Draper’s envisioned borders would form at least two solidly blue states.“Why would any Republican want to create two more Democratic senators?” asked Jack Citrin, a professor of political science at the University of California at Berkeley.Executive approval is looking even less likely. President Donald Trump and California have been clashing on everything from immigration policy to environmental regulations. Trump’s in no mood to be doing favors for the Golden State. Draper’s idea might ring a bell. That’s because, in 2014, he came up with a very similar initiative to divide California into six “startup” states. His campaign missed the deadline to make it onto the 2014 ballot and then failed to qualify for the one in 2016. While he submitted more than 1.13 million signatures that time around, officials estimated only 752,685 were valid. Draper’s response to falling short: The state’s signature verification process was archaic and just further proof that California’s current system is dysfunctional and needs new governments.Draper’s three-state initiative has competition. Some similarly minded individuals, who are also pushing for better education and a tax overhaul, want California to remain whole but secede from the U.S. in a movement coined “Calexit.” The proponents say secession will promote peace and security, because being part of the U.S. makes the state a target for terrorism.This movement has tried and failed in the past. It faces some major hurdles, such as a federally required constitutional amendment, a two-thirds vote in Congress and ratification by 38 states. It also says something that Texas may very well be the one state that has the power to split itself – and it hasn’t. That all aside, Calexit has been cleared to start collecting signatures for a 2021 referendum.Political disputes within California run deep. And Draper is proposing to form states out of counties that haven’t always gotten along so well.Take the far-north region of California, where some have for years longed to unite with southern Oregon to form a new state called “Jefferson.” Many voters in that area wouldn’t exactly be thrilled with the idea of being lumped together with the Bay Area and Sacramento.Jim Newton, a public policy lecturer at the University of California at Los Angeles, isn’t convinced people will see their lives as better served by three different governors, three different legislatures or three different Departments of Education.“I don’t think it’s substantively sensible,” he said, calling Draper’s initiative “politically doomed.”As for Draper himself? He said he remains hopeful. After all, he said, “Anything can happen in politics.” — With assistance by Samuel Dodge

2018-05-08T22:43:00.294Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/accused-crypto-fraudster-faces-skeptical-judge-over-his-defense
A Brooklyn, New York, man accused of peddling cybercurrency offerings backed by non-existent investments in real estate and diamonds claims he can’t be prosecuted for securities fraud. But a judge wasn’t buying that defense.“There is no blockchain, there is no real estate, there were no diamonds,” U.S. District Judge Raymond Dearie said at a hearing Tuesday. “It was a grand misrepresentation. It just wasn’t there. It’s a gossamer, there’s nothing to it."The case filed against Maksim Zaslavskiy in November is believed to be the first criminal fraud prosecution focused on an ICO. The Securities and Exchange Commission also sued.“Cryptocurrencies are in a novel class," his lawyer, Len Kamdang, argued Tuesday. "It’s very difficult to apply securities laws to this asset."Kamdang noted that another judge in the same courthouse separately concluded that bitcoin was a commodity that can be regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading CommissionDearie interrupted him."Is it possible that it’s both?” the judge asked. “Don’t panic, but we are in a new world here."Dearie didn’t immediately rule. He said he needs to look at how the allegations against Zaslavskiy stand up to the test set by the U.S. Supreme Court when it ruled that an orange grove business could be found liable for violating securities-fraud laws. The judge also scheduled a trial for Jan. 7."It would be nice if the regulators got into the 20th century, much less the 21st," Dearie said. "But I have to deal with the cards that have been dealt to me."

2018-05-07T15:39:48.492Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/dancing-badgers-draw-more-attention-than-sec-at-ethereum-meeting
In the crypto world, all eyes are on a meeting today where U.S. regulators may discuss whether Ethereum is a security, but developers at the center of the network showed few signs of caring at a three-day gathering that ended this weekend, where scaling and security were the main focus.Ethereum co-founder Joseph Lubin was maybe the only speaker to focus on the question at the Community Ethereum Development Conference in Toronto, which featured stuffed animal unicorns, coders dancing to a video of bouncing badgers and mushrooms, and t-shirt clad attendees, largely in their 20s. Many of Ethereum’s co-founders attended, as well as hundreds of developers for the decentralized applications being built on top of the network.Lubin said he’s unconcerned about reports that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is considering whether to name Ether a security. He said digital asset is used as a means to fuel applications based on Ethereum, not as an investment or stake in a company.The Ethereum Foundation said in an April 25 statement, that Ether is like “the gas in a vehicle that is relied upon for every action performed by thousands of independent applications, developers and users who themselves will determine the success and value of the Ethereum platform,” adding that, “the Foundation neither controls the supply of, nor has the ability to issue Ether, and the quantity of Ether that the Foundation holds (under one percent of all Ether) is already lower than that held by many other ecosystem participants.”Regulators are trying to determine whether Ethereum’s cryptocurrency, Ether, should be considered a security, which would mean only SEC-regulated exchanges would be able to trade it. It would also attract even greater scrutiny to tokens built on the Ethereum blockchain.Read More: Former CFTC Chief Warns Major Cryptocurrencies May Be SecuritiesDonnie Harinsut, co-founder of decentralized network for financial services OmiseGO, which sold $25 million of its OMG token in an initial coin offering last year, echoed Lubin’s statements.OMG “is not a cryptocurrency, it’s a token made to run on a network,’’ Harinsut said, noting that they’re a Bangkok-based company and Thailand officials have encouraged cryptocurrency projects. Still, Harinsut added OMG tokens may be affected by regulation elsewhere, “it’s a global network and they can be distributed everywhere.’’Harinsut is like most of the developers building the nuts and bolts of the Ethereum blockchain and others creating applications on top of it and was more concerned about how this network will continue to grow and processes more information, faster. Discussions revolved around the status, advantages and drawbacks of scaling solutions, like sharding and plasma.Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin said at a panel that he sees, “no fundamental roadblocks” for sharding to be implemented.A large portion of the conference was also dedicated to casper, a proposed change to the way Ethereum’s protocol validates transactions. The goal is to move away from the energy-intensive mechanism of proof-of-work, like Bitcoin uses, to proof-of-stake. Buterin dedicated his talk in the conference to encourage people to become casper validators and explained how the awards and punishment system of the proposal works.The development of these technologies will be what defines whether Ethereum will live up to its goal of becoming a world computer that’s able to change how many industries work by replacing middle-men and centralized management with self-executing code.“Scaling is the number one issue,’’ Maria Paula Fernandez, spokeswoman for decentralized computing platform Golem, said. “Many of the projects, including Golem, face a lot of scalability problems when it comes to deploying their own projects, as when the transaction volume in Ethereum increases, they experience a bottle neck.’’Most major blockchain projects have lawyers who are busy thinking about the regulatory changes, but developers will focus on building, Fernandez said.

2018-05-09T21:28:05.083Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-09/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jgzm882o
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereMalaysia’s election upset stuns investors. North Korea releases three Americans detainees. And the fallout from U.S. President Donald Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal continues. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Mahathir Mohamad won a stunning victory in Malaysia’s election, ending the six-decade rule of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s party in a landmark shift for the Southeast Asian nation. Mahathir, Malaysia’s longest-serving premier who defected to the opposition to take on Najib, will return to power at the age of 92. His four-party Pakatan Harapan alliance won at least 112 of 222 parliamentary seats in Wednesday’s vote, official figures from the election commission showed. The outcome may be bad news for investors who had bet on a Najib victory. The U.S. traded iShares MSCI Malaysia ETF  dropped 6 percent to $32.40 Wednesday, the lowest since December, as trading volume jumped to $144 million, about six times the average daily turnover in the past year. Local markets are expected to be closed Thursday and Friday after the government declared public holidays.North Korea released three U.S. citizens who had been detained for as long as two years in a goodwill gesture ahead of a planned summit between President Trump and Kim Jong Un that’s expected in the coming weeks. The Korean-American men, who all have the common surname of Kim but are not related, immediately boarded a plane with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who was in Pyongyang to meet with Kim Jong Un and other top officials and lay the groundwork for the summit. Trump tweeted “date & place set” for the summit but said the location wouldn’t be the DMZ. He’ll announce the details “soon.” Global leaders continued to sound off  on Trump’s scrapping of the Iran accord. The president warned of “very severe” consequences should Tehran restart nuclear activities that were halted as part of the 2015 agreement that the U.S. president abandoned on Tuesday. Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister urged a summit between Trump and Vladimir Putin, saying a meeting is “extremely important” to safeguard global stability. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told President Vladimir Putin that Iran is out to destroy his country, pressing his appeal for Russian help to keep Tehran from using Syria as a launching pad to attack the Jewish state. Oil surged amid speculation the move could unravel the OPEC supply deal.International politics are looming large over the race among global investment banks to secure coveted permits for taking majority stakes in Chinese securities joint ventures. Switzerland’s UBS Group AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. of Japan in the past week became the first to apply for permission to buy 51 percent stakes in local securities JVs. Both banks acted after China’s securities regulator encouraged them to quickly submit applications, people with knowledge of the matter said. U.S. banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley weren’t likewise asked to seek approval, three of the people said. Amid escalating tensions with Trump’s administration over trade and investments, Beijing wanted to signal that getting majority control over local JVs could take longer for U.S. firms.Asian futures are pointing to a higher open after U.S stocks jumped. Ten-year Treasury yields rallied back above 3%, while the dollar’s climb took a pause. Inflation reports and central banks steal the economic spotlight in Asia Thursday. Chinese PPI and CPI are due in the Asia morning after a report showed wholesale prices in the U.S. rose less than forecast. U.S. CPI is due Thursday. New Zealand kicked off Asia central bank action by holding rates at a record low, with Malaysia and the Philippines due later Thursday. In Europe, the BOE is expected to hold rates steady.This is what’s caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds

2018-05-08T20:30:20.629Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jgy4q46x
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereU.S. President Donald Trump officially scrapped the Iran nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions. Chinese, South Korean and Japanese leaders meet in Tokyo, and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is landing in North Korea. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Trump said the U.S. will withdraw from the landmark 2015 accord to curb Iran’s nuclear program and that he would reinstate financial sanctions on the Islamic Republic, casting the Mideast into a new period of uncertainty. He called the accord a “one-sided deal that should have never ever been made.” (Here’s what’s at stake in the withdrawal.) Meanwhile, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was watching the decision closely, with potential repercussions for his upcoming summit with Trump, according to China’s former ambassador to Pyongyang.WTI crude took a wild ride Tuesday amid conflicting reports in the runup to Trump’s announcement. Futures pared losses after the president confirmed the U.S. would pull out. The dollar rallied and Treasury yields pushed higher after JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon warned that 4 percent interest rates may be coming. The dollar continued its march higher as U.S. stocks fell.Over the past two days, Chinese President Xi Jinping has been meeting with Kim in China’s port city of Dalian, the second meeting between top officials of China and North Korea in two months. The summit came after Kim’s surprise two-day visit to Beijing in late March, his first known trip abroad since taking power in 2011. Trump said Tuesday that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is en route to North Korea to prepare for talks with Kim and discuss the possible release of American prisoners.Xi then spoke with Trump about North Korea and the “importance of continued implementation of sanctions” until Kim dismantles his nuclear program. The two leaders then turned to the U.S-China trade relationship while Xi’s top economic adviser plans additional talks in Washington. But in Geneva, Chinese and U.S. ambassadors to the World Trade Organization clashed over Trump’s proposed tariffs on $150 billion of Chinese goods. Washington criticized China’s vow of retaliation, with U.S. officials saying Beijing’s exhortations against protectionism have “entered the realm of ‘Alice in Wonderland.’”Markets in Asia will likely take the morning to digest Trump’s Iran decision. Earnings will be in focus, with Toyota Motor Corp., SoftBank and Mitsubishi Motors all set to report. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will welcome Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and South Korean President Moon Jae-in for the first trilateral summit in seven years, meant to pave the way for Abe to visit China.This is what’s caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-05-08T20:19:56.473Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/facebook-shakes-up-management-whatsapp-messenger-get-new-heads
Facebook Inc. named new leaders for some of its main divisions, including the core social network, WhatsApp and Messenger, in the biggest management reshuffling since the company’s founding.The Menlo Park, California-based company also unveiled a new initiative to explore the use of blockchain, the decentralized ledger technology that underpins digital currencies like Bitcoin. The team dedicated to blockchain will be run by David Marcus, who formerly headed the Messenger chat app.Facebook’s chief product officer, Chris Cox, has been promoted to oversee all of the company’s apps. Will Cathcart will become head of Facebook’s core application, the company said. The former leader of news feed, Adam Mosseri, was named head of product at photo-sharing app Instagram, replacing Kevin Weil, who will join the blockchain team.Chris Daniels, formerly in charge of the company’s Internet.org initiative to spread connectivity in developing countries, will take charge of WhatsApp after the departure of Jan Koum, that tool’s co-founder, who announced his exit last month. The management changes were reported earlier by technology news website Recode.Facebook is making the leadership changes after a broad review of all the company’s products and their privacy holes, sparked by the revelation in March of a data leak that exposed personal information on tens of millions of users. The social-media giant has had a stable management structure for years. Companies often shuffle executives to work on different products to bring a fresher perspective and to help the teams more easily identify problem areas.The company also added Jeff Zients, a former Obama administration official and current chief executive officer of the Cranemere Group, to its board, according to a regulatory filing on Tuesday.

2018-05-08T15:06:41.470Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/gary-cohn-says-digitized-bank-is-one-option-for-future-role
Gary Cohn, the former director of the White House Economic Council, said he’s still weighing options for his next role but one possibility is a digital bank.“I do have an idea for a company,” Cohn, who was Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s president before joining the Trump administration, said Tuesday in an interview on CNBC. “It would be an interesting concept playing on the knowledge I know from the banking world, in running a regulated bank, but in a digitized world.”Cohn, 57, announced his departure from the White House in March after Trump moved forward with steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports -- a plan Cohn had vociferously opposed. He was replaced by Larry Kudlow, an economist and former CNBC contributor. Cohn reiterated Tuesday that tariffs are detrimental to economic growth.In an interview with Bloomberg News at the BTIG Commissions for Charity Day, Cohn said he doesn’t want to serve on the board of a large corporation. “A lot of people have called me about boards and it’s not exciting to me,” he said. “Getting involved with young entrepreneurs is exciting to me.”While he said he’s in no rush to start his next job, “if the right opportunity, once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, came across tomorrow, I’d be at work on Monday morning,” he said. If it doesn’t, “I’m going to enjoy my summer.” Cohn told CNBC he’s not a “big believer” in Bitcoin, but does think a global cryptocurrency using blockchain technology is likely at some point.That new cryptocurrency “will be more easily understood: how it’s created, how it moves and how people can use it,” Cohn said.Cohn said in the CNBC interview that he’s reviewing many options for his next act, including money management or philanthropic work.“I miss working with young entrepreneurs,” Cohn said. “Getting involved with companies earlier is something I could see myself doing. I wouldn’t rule out getting involved with a mature company as well.”— With assistance by Amanda L Gordon

2018-05-03T16:19:51.430Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-03/bitcoin-bulls-celebrate-goldman-square-news-but-should-they
Bitcoin bulls may want to curb their enthusiasm.The cryptocurrency rose toward a two-month high Thursday amid optimism sparked by news that Goldman Sachs is moving forward with Bitcoin trading operations. Adding to the gleeful tone, Square’s latest report included a line suggesting it got $34 million of revenue related to the tokens last quarter.Yet, there were key details in both reports that perhaps could give investors pause. Goldman isn’t buying and selling actual Bitcoins. Instead it’s taking a step forward with long-disclosed efforts to explore crypto trading, planning to start small by offering a limited number of derivatives, according to a person briefed on the decisions.It’s a reminder that many traditional financial institutions, bound to a long list of rules from regulators, are still a long way from figuring out how to deal with crypto directly.Read Bloomberg’s December story on Goldman building a crypto trading deskMeanwhile, Square’s maiden disclosure of Bitcoin’s contribution to its financials isn’t quite as unabashedly bullish for the currency. While $34.1 million in revenue did come from selling Bitcoins to users of its Cash App, it cost Square $33.9 million to buy those Bitcoins, meaning that the firm really only made about $200,000.Still, some say the company’s enthusiasm for digital currencies and blockchain technology is a sign of progress for the nascent industry.Bitcoin climbed 2.4 percent to $9,399.43 at 10:36 a.m. in New York. Shares of Square fell 2.6 percent to $47.40 after profit projections missed estimates Wednesday.

2018-05-08T01:25:28.832Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-08/blockchain-may-soon-be-helping-puerto-rico-keep-the-lights-on
Solar panels. Batteries. Emergency fossil fuel-fired generators. They’ve all been deployed across Puerto Rico to help get the lights back on in the months following devastating hurricanes Irma and Maria.Now it’s blockchain’s turn.Australian blockchain technology provider Power Ledger has its eyes set on the island, where power was wiped out by Irma and Maria last year. The company has hired Dante Disparte, a grid resiliency and security expert from Puerto Rico, to lead its efforts in the U.S. territory, said Jemma Green, co-founder and chair of the firm.Read More: All About Bitcoin, Blockchain and Their Crypto World: QuickTakePower Ledger is working with factories and regulators to help companies on the island finance so-called microgrid resources such as solar panels and battery storage. It will then use its blockchain technology to allow the companies to trade power from those resources with one another, and to sell supplies to their employees or local communities. Through this exchange, people will be able to buy power in cash, cryptocurrency or -- if a company wants it -- labor.“The next hurricane season is but three weeks away and the grid is not reliable -- that is part of the urgency,” said Disparte, who is also chief executive officer of advisory firm Risk Cooperative.The goal is to stop an exodus of workers from the island and keep businesses from fleeing to the continental U.S. in search of more reliable power service. Disparte said he’s met with pharmaceutical and energy companies in Puerto Rico about the company’s plan. Some of their operations are in rural areas where distribution lines serving homes have remained down since the hurricanes struck.Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority CEO Walter Higgins said in an interview last week that it’ll probably take another month or two to finish restoring electricity to the remaining 25,678 metered customers still without power following the storms. They represent 1.74 percent of the utility’s total customers.Disparte said he isn’t interested in “just building back the old grid waiting for the next crisis and the next wave of financial constraints.” Later this year, Power Ledger’s cryptocurrency investors will be able to make investments in Puerto Rico energy assets using what are known as POWR tokens.— With assistance by Rebecca Kern

2018-05-03T14:42:04.463Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-03/goldman-wants-to-trade-your-bitcoins
Goldman Bitcoins!As I may have mentioned once or twice around here, I used to work at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and while I generally think the firm is a good place and I like a lot of the people I worked with, I never exactly miss it. Investment banking was not, all in all, for me. Also, separately, as I may have implied once or twice around here, I have my doubts about some of the bolder claims that Bitcoin and blockchain enthusiasts make. Certainly I find cryptocurrencies interesting, certainly I write about them a lot, but I do not think it would be unfair to characterize me as a Bitcoin skeptic.Even so, now I kind of want a job in Goldman’s Bitcoin trading department? It sounds like just the sort of dumb weird project that I couldn’t resist:In a step that is likely to lend legitimacy to virtual currencies — and create new concerns for Goldman — the bank is about to begin using its own money to trade with clients in a variety of contracts linked to the price of Bitcoin.While Goldman will not initially be buying and selling actual Bitcoins, a team at the bank is looking at going in that direction if it can get regulatory approval and figure out how to deal with the additional risks associated with holding the virtual currency.All of those words—except “Bitcoin”—those are my kinds of words. “If it can get regulatory approval”! “Figure out how to deal with the additional risks”! “A variety of contracts”! The one thing that I really do miss about working at an investment bank, oddly, is figuring out how to make the plumbing work for dumb strange implausible trades. In some sense it is the core—well, a core—intellectual content of investment banking: identifying a financial desire, and threading the legal and regulatory and tax and capital and financing and liquidity and market-risk and reputational needles required so that the bank can fulfill that desire for its clients. Working on the Bitcoin desk would be like that every day. In the next few weeks — the exact start date has not been set — Goldman will begin using its own money to trade Bitcoin futures contracts on behalf of clients. It will also create its own, more flexible version of a future, known as a non-deliverable forward, which it will offer to clients.Building your own over-the-counter Bitcoin derivatives! At a real bank! What a great dumb job! Imagine the new products committee meeting to approve that thing. Also at Goldman it seems like it would be a fairly chill situation:Rana Yared, one of the Goldman executives overseeing the creation of the trading operation, said the bank was cleareyed about what it was getting itself into.“I would not describe myself as a true believer who wakes up thinking Bitcoin will take over the world,” Ms. Yared said. “For almost every person involved, there has been personal skepticism brought to the table.”That’s not just a Bitcoin comment, really; if you are not bringing some personal skepticism to the building of any new trading or derivatives business, you are probably doing it a bit wrong. We talk a lot around here about how “banking is boring.” “Boring,” in that expression, is a term of art; it doesn’t mean literally that the job of banking is dull, but rather that banks have less leveraged exposure to market volatility. But it also kind of means literally that the job of banking is dull: The intent, and the main effect, of post-crisis regulations is to reduce leverage and market risk, but an ancillary effect is sometimes to push banks to focus on making traditional products and business lines more efficient rather than on finding wild new financial desires and fulfilling them in exciting ways. But a Bitcoin trading desk at Goldman! That’s neither kind of boring. It is a lot of brand-new, complicated, interesting product- and business-building, and it’s also some lunatic market risk. It would be a fun irony if Bitcoin—which was supposed to supplant the untrustworthy traditional banking system represented by suspicious characters like Goldman Sachs—is what makes Goldman fun again.Elsewhere in the crypto.Really, imagine running the crypto trading business at a big bank, you’d constantly be dealing with all sorts of amazing nonsense. For instance here is a story about a crypto panel at the Milken Institute Global Conference that seems to have been as terrible as you could hope for: “Billed as a sober discussion to a ballroom where every seat was filled, the panel meandered into shouting and crosstalk,” with Nouriel Roubini saying things like “All this talk of decentralization is just bullsh*t” and a crypto guy telling Roubini “Why don’t you buy one coin, then you can tell us how it works.” (Nocoiner!) And:“I may need to step in and regulate this panel,” said Brent McIntosh, general counsel for the U.S. Treasury and another panel participant.I am not quite sure but I think that is a good line? Or here is a story about how the initial coin offering for Telegram was canceled due to excessive success:The popular messaging app Telegram has brought in so much money from a small group of private investors that it is calling off a planned sale of cryptocurrency to the wider investing public, according to a person familiar with the matter.Telegram Group Inc. has pulled in $1.7 billion by selling newly created cryptocurrency to fewer than 200 private investors.Eventually there is going to be an ICO that is an actual registered securities offering. There have already been ICOs that are unregistered securities offerings, in which the company concedes that its tokens are securities and restricts their sale to “accredited investors” to avoid U.S. registration requirements. There have also been ICOs that, legally or otherwise, were open to public investors but were characterized as not being securities offerings. But the Securities and Exchange Commission clearly thinks that basically all ICOs are securities offerings, and eventually someone is going to want to do a big and reputable enough ICO that they will register it as a securities offering and, for all I know, hire a syndicate of investment banks and pay them a 7 percent fee and generally make it look like an initial public offering, but for tokens. Maybe Goldman’s Bitcoin desk will lead the deal.Or Venezuela’s petro: Still sort of a thing.Venezuela has offered India a 30-percent discount on crude oil purchases, but only if India agrees to pay in El Petro, the cryptocurrency that Venezuela is touting as the first national digital currency backed by crude oil reserves, the Indian outlet Business Standard reports.It’s a little unclear from the articles, but basically the trade seems to be:I remain a petro skeptic, but part of my objection is that the claim that it is “backed by” or redeemable for oil is obviously false. If Venezuela actually—sort of—exchanges oil for petros then I will look a little bit wrong.Your own, personal, ISDA.Why would you want to have an International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreement, which allows you to trade over-the-counter derivatives, with a big bank? Obviously if you are a hedge fund or a corporate hedging client you need one to do your business, but if you are an individual it is a particular kind of status symbol:Their ranks are getting more selective. While no one keeps count, people in the industry guesstimate that the total peaked at no more than 3,000 a decade ago and has shrunk considerably since the financial crisis. Months of interviews have yielded the identities of just 12 individuals who held the prize: an ISDA master agreement.In addition to being a status symbol, it lets you trade over-the-counter derivatives with a big bank, which is … a bit of a mixed bag? (“Banks do this business because they can charge two or three times more than they would a company,” says a wealth manager, and it’s not like the companies are underpaying for their OTC derivatives.) I suppose if you have a personal ISDA it means (1) you are very rich (the net-worth requirements at big banks tend to start at $25 million) and (2) you made that wealth in the sort of trading or trading-adjacent businesses where you’d learn that an ISDA is a thing worth having in the first place. So it is quite plausible that you are unusually savvy at trading derivatives. It is alternatively possible that losing your money by trading OTC derivatives is just your preferred form of entertainment, like extra-nerdy baccarat.Or there is this guy:After taking out a floating-rate mortgage on a house in Kensington, London’s most expensive borough, Guido Filippa signed an ISDA contract with Goldman Sachs to protect against rising interest rates.Filippa, 45, said he obtained the agreement via Goldman’s private-wealth management unit while working as a managing director in the bank’s London office. He entered into a 10-year interest rate derivative that required him to pay an upfront premium of about 4 percent of the value of the mortgage, while the bank is required to pay him every quarter that a benchmark of interbank borrowing costs is above a pre-defined level.Oh man, true story, I do not have an ISDA with JPMorgan Chase & Co., but I did manage to convince them to do a very similar trade with me. It is a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, and it satisfies my interest-rate-hedging requirements reasonably well and with no upfront premium. Please do not email me to explain that I could do even better with a floating-rate mortgage and an OTC cap. The point of the article is that I can’t. Because I don’t have an ISDA. But I don’t exactly miss it.(Oh fine fine fine fine fine I confess that when I first took out a mortgage, back when I worked at Goldman, I made some inquiries of Chase about whether I could do something—I forget exactly what—to customize my interest-rate risk. It is just the sort of temptation that you fall prey to when you work in finance and are first discovering mortgages. “No,” they said. “That’s reasonable,” I said. Perhaps if I had had $25 million dollars and an ISDA I would have pursued the matter further.)McClatchy.I don’t know if McClatchy Co. Chief Financial Officer Elaine Lintecum reads Money Stuff. But I wrote yesterday about McClatchy’s proposed refinancing deal with Chatham Asset Management, a hedge fund that has sold a lot of credit default swaps on the company, and I suggested that if CDS buyers are aggrieved by the refinancing then they should just propose their own better deal to the company. Chatham’s deal would subsidize the refinancing by, essentially, hosing CDS buyers, but the technology exists for the CDS buyers to subsidize a refinancing by hosing CDS sellers, so really McClatchy should just run an auction to see which side will give it more of the gains from hosing the other side.Also Lintecum talked to Bloomberg News:“We didn’t enter this deal to hurt the CDS market,” Elaine Lintecum, the chief financial officer of McClatchy, said in an interview. “I don’t have a fiduciary duty to the CDS market. Those betting against the company in the CDS market have a motivation to hurt McClatchy and its shareholders.” ...“No one has approached me with another deal,” Lintecum said. “Any other offers of a deal that would come to McClatchy, we would evaluate those and do what’s in the best interest of our shareholders.”Hint hint! Anyway the central problem in the current wave of weird CDS trades—McClatchy, Hovnanian—is that she’s entirely right; she doesn’t have a fiduciary duty to the CDS market. Credit default swaps are pure side bets about a company’s credit, generally arranged without the company’s knowledge or approval or involvement. If a company looks at the market for its CDS, and sees a way to cheapen its own borrowing costs by ill-using some CDS market participants, why shouldn’t it seize the opportunity? What relationship does it have with the people who are betting against its bonds in a derivative market? Why does the integrity of that market matter to it? Oh there are answers—a functioning CDS market might (or might not) make credit cheaper for corporate borrowers—but they do not have quite the immediacy of being offered cheap money. And CDS participants who complain to corporate borrowers about the sanctity of the CDS market might find out that the corporate borrowers just don’t care.Tech-company governance.Hahahaha sure, sure:The earnings report started optimistically enough, with Elon Musk forecasting an end to Tesla Inc.’s cash-burning days after blazing through another $1 billion last quarter.But by the end of Tesla’s first-quarter conference call, Musk was berating analysts for asking “boring” questions, the shares had plunged and any shred of predictability was out the window. …Musk cut off analysts’ queries about the company’s capital requirements and whether it was retaining Model 3 reservation holders, calling the questions “so dry” and “not cool.” And:“And so where specifically will you be in terms of capital requirements?” Sacconaghi said.“Excuse me. Next. Next,” Musk said to the call operator. “Boring, bonehead questions are not cool. Next?”And:“I think that if people are concerned about volatility, they should definitely not buy our stock,” Musk replied. “I’m not here to convince you to buy our stock. Do not buy it if volatility is scary. There you go.”Look, I mean, it’s a theory. Obviously shareholders of a public company get—or at least want—some say in choosing their managers. But the managers get—or at least want—some say in choosing their shareholders, too. If you are not cool with Musk, you probably shouldn’t invest in Tesla, and if Musk doesn’t think you’re cool, he could perfectly reasonably try to drive you away from investing in Tesla. Obviously there are a lot of very traditional normal investors in Tesla who like Musk fine as a visionary but would find it helpful if he’d answer basic financial questions on the conference call, but you can’t get everything you want, and there is something rather likable about Musk forcing them to choose. Anyway if Tesla does blow up you can’t say there weren’t any hints.Elsewhere, Mark Pincus of Zynga Inc. is converting his high-vote stock into low-vote stock, apparently out of the goodness of his heart:Mr. Pincus said, he made the decision in consultation with Zynga’s board, partly because of growing criticism of dual- and multiclass share structures. As part of the change, Mr. Pincus said, he will leave Zynga as an employee — he was executive chairman — and become nonexecutive chairman of the company’s board of directors.“We think the company doesn’t benefit anymore from a multiclass structure,” Mr. Pincus said.There is some loose sense in which, even in companies with multiple share classes that are controlled by their charismatic founders, those founders still owe a fiduciary duty to the company and its shareholders. The point of the dual-class share structure is to give the founder more freedom to act in the long-term interests of the company, free from the short-term pressures of a myopic stock market. (If you believe that.) At some point—for instance, when the charismatic founder is no longer that involved in the day-to-day running of the company and wants to focus on other things—then he should, as a long-term shareholder acting in the best interests of the company, probably just voluntarily give up the dual-class structure. Still you don’t see it very often.Sports Stuff.Here is a very Arsenal story about Arsenal, the English soccer team: They are so disappointing that a bookmaker’s business suffered because it won too many bets against Arsenal.Losses by Arsenal and other teams were one of the factors behind weak first-quarter revenues at Paddy Power Betfair, the U.K.-based gambling group. Problem is, fans like to bet on Arsenal and they like to win their bets occasionally. When they do they are more likely to recycle those winnings into more bets, especially in online accounts.Paddy Power said Wednesday that too many house wins had put fans off betting ...You know it’s bad when your team has ruined sports gambling for the bookies.Programming note.You may have seen the announcement yesterday that Bloomberg Digital will now have a subscription model. Here are a letter from Editor-in-Chief John Micklethwait explaining the changes, and a more detailed FAQ page. If you read Money Stuff by email, nothing will change for you; service will continue uninterrupted even if you choose not to pay for Bloomberg Digital. (The web version of Money Stuff will, like the rest of Bloomberg’s web stories, be subject to the paywall.) You can subscribe (for free) to the email version of Money Stuff here, or sign up for it and other free Bloomberg newsletters here.Nonetheless, you should pay for Bloomberg Digital, not only because paying for news is the right thing to do, and not only because Bloomberg’s excellent journalism is well worth the price, but also because I link to a lot of Bloomberg articles in this newsletter and you’ll quickly eat through your allotment of free articles just by clicking on my links.Things happen.KKR Switches to Corporation to Win More Investors, Fuel Deals. Employee in $100 Million Case Says AIG Kept Making Bonus Pledges. Xiaomi Files in Hong Kong for World's Biggest IPO Since 2014. Ride-Hailing Firm Grab in Talks to Raise $1 Billion. The question investors must ask: ‘Do I know more than a machine?’ Jim Belushi Hosts Pot Party for Investors at His L.A. Mansion. Goldman Sachs' mumps cases prompts Health Department warning for employees. Writer Picks Up Poker For Book Stunt, Wins So Much Money That The Book Is On Hold.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-02T23:34:00.639Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/goldman-is-said-to-add-crypto-contracts-without-trading-bitcoins
Don’t call Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s long-awaited Bitcoin-trading business a full-fledged desk, and don’t expect it to buy and sell Bitcoins, at least at first.The bank, preparing to pioneer a new cryptocurrency market on Wall Street, plans to start small and offer a limited number of derivatives, according to a person briefed on the decisions. It will trade Bitcoin futures in a principal, market-making capacity and will also create non-deliverable forward products.Wall Street firms began offering clients futures from Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc. in December. But one issue with buying and selling actual Bitcoins is that they can be stolen by hackers. That means any bank looking to facilitate those transactions will have to figure out how to guard such assets, a step that could require a nod from regulators.Goldman Sachs already hired Justin Schmidt as head of digital asset markets to help clients gain exposure to cryptocurrencies. At least preliminarily, he will sit on the firm’s currency desk, the person said, asking not to be identified discussing internal plans.The New York Times reported the bank’s decision to offer forward products earlier Thursday, noting that the business will start in the next few weeks. That means Goldman’s project is on track: People familiar with the bank’s plans said late last year that firm aimed to have its new business running by the end of June.

2018-05-02T14:11:09.872Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/bitcoin-s-daily-trading-range-falls-from-4-700-to-124-chart
Volatility might be off the floor in equity markets, but in the crypto world it’s heading down to levels not seen since last fall. The spread between Bitcoin’s daily high and low price has trended back toward $100. That’s a steep drop from December, when prices saw a record swing of about $4,700 in a single day.For more on Bitcoin, check out the Decrypted  podcast:

2018-05-07T04:00:00.009Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/brokers-push-for-crypto-transparency-before-rules-get-mandated
The latest calls to regulate the exploding cryptocurrency market come from an unusual place.Some of Europe’s largest digital-coin brokers, who would be saddled with the new rules, are actually asking for them in a bid to clear the air and shake off perceptions they help criminals transfer money. Firms such as eToro Europe Ltd. in London and Bitpanda GmbH in Vienna say clear, “know your customer” rules would let trading platforms go mainstream more easily, gain clients and eventually tap institutional business.Eric Demuth“We’d be happy to have regulations, so we know where we stand,” said Eric Demuth, the 31-year-old co-chief executive officer of Bitpanda in Vienna, who said he meets frequently with potential regulators at Austria’s Finance Ministry. Moving into loosely regulated jurisdictions like Malta or Gibraltar isn’t interesting because “it doesn’t look good,” he said.Pursuing transparency may seem ironic in a digital-coin market that mushroomed in the shadows since 2009 to as big as $800 billion. In many countries, people can still buy Bitcoin from specialized cash machines without showing any ID, and then use it for trading or for buying luxury goods, contraband and even property -- leaving few if any traces of identity.“This is all about where the burden of proof lies for anti-money-laundering, so wanting regulations seems very sensible,” said Marc Ostwald, global strategist at ADM Investor Services International in London. “Even if you’re making a killing in trading, someone could come up with an unexpected piece of regulation that puts a big red line through your business plan.”In the U.S., San Francisco-based Coinbase has garnered 20 million users while rigorously documenting its clients. In Asia, Japan’s supportive rules have made it perhaps the global center for digital coins. In Europe, the business is relatively smaller. And for many brokers, nabbing an institutional customer is tough to impossible. In-house compliance rules of money managers typically limit dealings with unregulated firms.The European Commission and regional supervisors are currently studying whether current European Union rules can be applied to crypto trading. The market, whose value rose to more than $800 billion in January, has shrunk to about $430 billion, according to data on more than 1,600 digital coins and tokens tracked by Coinmarketcap.com.At the same time some tax agencies, such as those in the U.S. and Spain, have demanded brokers and banks turn over names and trading data on crypto clients, an ugly situation for a customer who assumed some level of anonymity.Platforms in Europe don’t want a harsh decision like Germany’s BaFin made in March, classifying tokens and virtual currencies as “financial instruments,” thereby setting extensive requirements on operators.“That would be horrible” for Austrian platforms, said Demuth, who’s gearing up to go after money managers someday with co-founder Paul Klanschek, 28. Bitpanda forecasts trading volume in 2018 to roughly triple to 2 billion euros ($2.4 billion) from last year’s level.For a link to the debate over rules for exchanges, and Gemini versus Kraken, click here.In the U.K., online currency-trader eToro opened for business in 2007, two years before Bitcoin was created. Cryptocurrencies now encompass about 75 percent of its business and eToro Managing Director Iqbal Gandham is chairing a trade group to bring transparency to their industry, he said. Members include Coinbase UK and the CEX.IO exchange.“The benefits of regulation are clear. An appropriate framework would serve to both protect consumers, and ensure the longevity and legitimacy of the industry itself,” Gandham said.For a look at how digital coins may have fueled ransomware growth, click here.While some brokers have actively sought for digital assets to be regulated as if they were a traditional asset, such as gold, Gandham rejects that approach.“Given that we are dealing with new and nascent technology, we wouldn’t want to simply cherry pick from existing regulation developed for other asset classes,” he said.Potential rules “would need to focus on those crypto organizations that interact with consumers – the ‘on-’ and ‘off-’ ramps between fiat and cryptocurrencies. You can look at Japan to see how this might work.”— With assistance by Eddie van der Walt, and Alexander Weber

2018-05-02T17:20:58.142Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/bitcoin-chartists-brace-for-dogfight-as-trading-range-narrows
The narrowest trading range in about six months has Bitcoin technical analysts scouring price charts to help figure out whether the biggest cryptocurrency is poised to build upon its April rally.“The market is not sending off strong signals as we speak as to the direction of the next major move,” Evercore ISI’s Rich Ross said. And though the bigger trend is higher, he said “Bitcoin is likely to remain violently sideways until a new trend emerges."Bitcoin is lingering around $9,000 after surging 35 percent in April, the best monthly performance since it rocketed to almost $20,000 in December, and subsequently lost more than half its value while crashing back to earth.“Bitcoin is positive or bullish, having reversed its December to April downtrend," said Rob Sluymer, a technical strategist at Fundstrat Global Advisors LLC. "It’s now in what we view as a healthy pause under its 200-day."Sluymer said this is indication of the digital currency now having reached a broader, longer-term recovery, with the 70 percent decline bear market being over. "Bitcoin is now in the early stages of a recovery mode," he said.Given the digital currency’s volatility, Ross said round numbers like $9,000 are of less significance from a technical standpoint. Instead, he is keeping an eye on the 50-day moving average of about $8,600 as key support and the 150-day at $9,700, which he said have defined the range over the past eight sessions.“A breakout or breakdown below and above those levels would hold some short-term significance technically, but this is likely to be a dogfight for some time,” Ross said.

2018-05-03T13:07:47.075Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-03/bitcoin-struggles-to-scale-wall-street-s-pinnacle-at-milken
The barbarians, it seems, are still pretty hostile when it comes to Bitcoin and its brethren, with some good reason.At the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California, this week, the outlook on pretty much everything — from the stock market to the future of humankind — was rosy. One reporter noted that if Michael Milken, the former banker who once provided the debt for the biggest takeovers of the late 1980s, had painted rainbows on the walls of the Hilton, where the conference has long been held, they would have fit right in.But the universally bullish outlook for pretty much every asset class didn’t extend to cryptocurrencies. New York University economist Nouriel Roubini, speaking at the conference, repeatedly questioned the digital currencies, and their promise, in colorful language. Charles Noyer, a cryptocurrency investor and believer who also spoke at the conference, said that he tactically plays down his personal enthusiasm for digital currencies there because he knows the crowd is skeptical. Alex Mashinsky, CEO of Celsius Network, which lets customers lend and borrow cryptocurrencies and raised money from 1,500 in an initial coin offering earlier this month, said that while some conference participants had expressed interest, finding investors there was difficult. “In the cryptospace, investors are throwing money at everything, here you have to prove a lot more to line up investors,” he said.Bitcoin prices have dropped from late last year, but are still up from a year agoSource: BloombergThere were some signs of a big money thaw on crypto, however. Two panels during the three-day conference were devoted to digital currencies and blockchain. And on a panel on regulation, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, J. Christopher Giancarlo, said he thought regulators should be more open to allowing the trading of cryptocurrencies. But a panel titled “The Future of Finance” did not include a representative from the digital currency industry. Representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Treasury Department, who also spoke at the conference, suggested more regulation was needed.One thing that was often repeated at the conference was that like the internet and the dot-com bubble in the 1990s, there were going to be a lot of failures. But that means for investors to play along they have to believe the ones that succeed will produce high returns. One hedge funder whose firm has raised money to invest in digital currencies said at least some of his fund’s interest was in shorting, or betting against, certain cryptocurrencies as well as trying to put money in eventual winners.Nonetheless, Erick Miller, the CEO of CoinCircle, which helps businesses create their own digital tokens for loyalty programs and other uses, hosted a dinner on Wednesday night that was attended by private equity and hedge fund investors, along with his fellow speakers from the blockchain panel. “We were impressed with the significant interest from large financial institutions, which could lead to the introduction of hundreds of billions of dollars into the ecosystem,” he said.It’s fair to ask how much of the skepticism stems from legitimate questions about the viability of cryptocurrencies and how much stems from their threat to the existing financial order. In part, digital currencies, and the initial coin offerings that raise money for them, as well as the capital framework, where investors put money into a so-called coin instead a traditional corporate capital structure, differ from Wall Street’s normal way of doing business. Nearly 30 years after the close of Milken’s Drexel Burnham Lambert, and nearly 10 years after the financial crisis, the current order still works pretty well for many of those at the Milken conference. They’re wary of finding themselves on the other side of the gate.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Stephen Gandel at sgandel2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Daniel Niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.net

2018-05-02T19:19:49.788Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/a-verbal-cryptobrawl-breaks-out-at-milken-over-bitcoin-s-future
A cryptocurrencies panel at the Milken Institute Global Conference was more like a cryptobrawl -- no punches but a barrage of barbed comments.“All this talk of decentralization is just bullsh*t,” said Nouriel Roubini, an economist known as Dr. Doom for predicting the chaos of the 2008 financial crisis.Nouriel Roubini“Everything you just said is irrelevant,” shot back Alex Mashinsky, a blockchain entrepreneur who was an early developer of the Voice over Internet Protocol standard.“I don’t even know where to begin,” Bill Barhydt, who worked on cryptography for the CIA, responded to Roubini.The moderator, Reuters journalist Anna Irrera, called for a time out to cool things off. Then the feds weighed in. “I may need to step in and regulate this panel,” said Brent McIntosh, general counsel for the U.S. Treasury and another panel participant.Alex MashinskyBilled as a sober discussion to a ballroom where every seat was filled, the panel meandered into shouting and crosstalk. Passions are running high nearly everywhere in crypto. Many predict the likes of Bitcoin and Ethereum will change the world. Others see failure looming.Among skeptics, few match New York University’s Roubini. Digital coins aren’t currencies because they aren’t a store of value, he argued. And they’re worthless for payments because Bitcoin and Ethereum’s blockchain technology can’t handle nearly the same volume of transactions as Visa Inc., he added.Mashinsky said crypto assets will let people bypass banks.“You’re just making stuff up,” Roubini replied.Mashinsky’s company, Celsius Network, lets users lend and borrow cryptocurrencies. He questioned how Roubini knows anything. “Why don’t you buy one coin, then you can tell us how it works,” Mashinsky said.McIntosh might’ve summed up the situation better than anyone: “Where this all goes, I don’t think anyone knows.” The people who’d just witnessed the fireworks can be forgiven for agreeing.

2018-05-07T00:35:06.043Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-07/musk-s-youtube-nerd-taunts-wall-street-after-wild-tesla-call
Galileo Russell is still coming down from the rush of his 23 minutes of fame.That’s how long he was in the spotlight during the bizarre Tesla Inc. earnings call last week, when a petulant Elon Musk cut off “boring” Wall Street analysts asking about the cash-burning company’s finances and declared: “We’re going to go to YouTube.”Galileo RussellCue Russell, the 25-year-old host of a millennial-focused channel called HyperChange TV. The until-then little-known small-time investor lobbed roughly a dozen questions, many about technology and future products, that Musk deemed “great.” It gave Russell such a thrill, he barely slept that night.“Basically, the entire Wall Street model just got disrupted,” the self-described finance nerd said in a phone interview. His unlikely turn on the call began with HyperChange subscribers lobbying Tesla’s investor relations department and was sealed when Musk told Russell, via Twitter, that he could.“Elon just opened a Pandora’s box, and it’s a super interesting development,” Russell said. “The analysts are pissed. But analysts better step up to the plate and ask better questions or be prepared that more people like me will be on these calls.”Read more: Tesla becomes a punchline on other companies’ callsThe time that Tesla’s chairman and chief executive officer spent with the young man did irk some of the regulars who were, after all, posing legitimate questions about Tesla, which hasn’t earned an annual profit in its 15-year history. Musk dismissed what he said were “dry” and “bonehead” queries, punctuating his put-downs by saying “they’re killing me.” Then it was dream-come-true time for Russell. Growing up as a teenager in Seattle, he read “The Snowball,” a biography of Warren Buffett, and traded options and penny stocks. He graduated from New York University’s Stern School of Business in 2015. After that, he got a gig managing $500,000 for a private investor who now follows HyperChange.Buffett and Musk trade quips over the concept of ‘moats’The channel launched last year and has more than 13,000 subscribers. (A pumped-up Russell thanked them in a video, saying he was “basically still in complete shock” and “processing this entire epic situation.”) He writes an affiliated newsletter about finance, economics, sustainability and more. His 68-page book “HyperChange: A Scheme of Consciousness” is about his view of “the modern economic era of perpetually accelerating disruption.” The view being, basically, that disruption is where it’s at.While the YouTube channel brings in money from ads, it’s not profitable so far. Russell said that $20,000 he made selling bitcoin has largely funded the operation. “It’s really just me in my apartment, but I have a friend who helps me make videos.” They’re shot in his rental on Manhattan’s Lower East Side, without many bells or whistles and often with the window-unit air-conditioner as part of the backdrop.Russell is a fan of Tesla; he owns 54 shares, which he bought in 2016 when the stock was at about $200. But HyperChange ventures into other areas. One recent episode explored cryptocurrencies and another is titled “Snapchat’s Q1 Trainwreck.” Russell won some cred, too, by devoting a video in March 2017 to outlining why Amazon.com Inc. should buy Whole Foods Market Inc. Amazon announced the acquisition about three months later.On the Tesla call, Russell uttered a few lines of encouragement, including “awesome, great stuff,” and “keep up the awesome work.” His questions ran the gamut, such as autonomous driving, Supercharging and battery projects with utilities. He wondered about plans for the Model Y, one of the next vehicles in the lineup; Musk responded that production would likely begin in 2020, a later date than the CEO had communicated previously, which garnered mention in analysts’ notes the next day.The themes were more product- and technology-focused than those broached by the analysts, who bored in on the Model 3 production ramp, gross margins, capital expenditures and whether Musk needed, or wanted, to raise money. Investors were alarmed by Musk’s handling of the call and drove the stock down, but some liked what Russell brought to the table.“More managements should cut off analysts who are asking the same questions over and over again, missing the forest for the trees,” Cathie Wood, founder and CEO of ARK Investment Management LLC, which holds Tesla shares, wrote in a tweet. “The line of questioning improved dramatically.”In retrospect, Russell said he wishes he’d squeezed in one or two nitty-gritty questions about the balance sheet. “I should have asked more about the trajectory of operating expenses and the path to profitability.” Then again, that might have made him as boring as everyone else on the line. Next time.

2018-05-04T06:30:11.506Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-04/crypto-is-in-limbo-whatever-goldman-does
Imagine if Goldman Sachs Group Inc. had announced a Bitcoin trading operation at the end of 2017, just as public enthusiasm was reaching fever pitch. What an endorsement! With Bitcoin futures being rolled out on exchanges and hedge funds reinventing themselves as cryptocurrency firms, supporters of stateless money would no doubt have claimed Wall Street’s use of it as inevitable step on the path to riches.That announcement never came — but the sell-off did. Five months and a 50-percent drop in the price later, news that Goldman will start trading Bitcoin after all, or rather contracts linked to its price, seems awkwardly timed. As fun as it might be to build a brand-new, interesting kind of banking product (as my colleague Matt Levine described it) this doesn’t look like the kind of endorsement that boosts adoption and revitalizes wary investors.Bitcoin is languishing in a crypto-limbo that any big bank would find hard to break. Individual investors, stung by heavy losses, appear to have put aside their urge to gamble for the time being. Trading volumes have dwindled. Hedge-fund traders who drooled over Bitcoin’s volatility last year now describe it as boring — its daily trading range has fallen to around $100, close to 1 percent of the spot price.Confirmed Bitcoin transactions per day, seven-day averageSource: Blockchain.infoBitcoin’s defenders will say that all of this proves its worth as a store of value. One Bitcoin has changed hands for somewhere between $6,000 and $9,000 since March, so it can’t be all that toxic. In that sense, the more boring it gets the better. The New York Times reports that clients are asking Goldman to help them hold Bitcoin as a valuable commodity like gold. It may be anathema to the crypto-anarchists, but perhaps more established investors might bite if Bitcoin remains stable?The problem is that big investors tend to have long memories. Any lull in price volatility will be set against the historical record: If Bitcoin’s price was able to double in one month and halve in the next, what’s to stop that happening again? Some dedicated crypto hedge funds will probably be able to roll with the punches, going with and against the crypto tide as necessary. But only a long track record will instill confidence.And let’s not forget the legal questions that still need to be addressed. Regulators have subpoenaed cryptocurrency investment funds, exchanges and companies selling new tokens to the public. They are mulling the rather important question of whether widely traded cryptocurrencies like Ether or Ripple are actually unregistered securities — which, if so, would doubtless unleash a fresh bout of selling. The G-20 has also yet to issue a common global position. There are plenty of reasons to hold back. Even Goldman knows it — it’s not yet ready to trade actual Bitcoin.If regulators keep dithering, and the balance of power remains in favor of wealthy “whales” who have outsized influence in crypto-circles, there could be room for a new break-out of animal spirits among punters as Bitcoin regains its allure as a source of life-changing riches. But the promise that it will involve Wall Street money feels flimsy. Banks aren’t going to rush into this particular market.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Lionel Laurent at llaurent2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Edward Evans at eevans3@bloomberg.net

2018-05-05T20:51:10.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-05/buffett-speaks-at-berkshire-s-meeting-toplive-key-takeaways
Key takeaways from comments by Warren Buffett and his business partner Charles Munger at Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting. See also the full TOPLive blog.

2018-04-30T18:31:19.526Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-30/bitcoin-bulls-regain-upper-hand-as-crypto-rally-resumes-in-april
Bitcoin diehards are breathing a sigh of relief as April winds down.The world’s biggest cryptocurrency has jumped 36 percent, the biggest monthly gain since December, when it soared to almost $20,000 before quickly crashing to as low as $5,922 in January. The rally is leaving advocates optimistic."The repair process has slowly begun,” said Rich Ross, Evercore ISI’s head of technical analysis in New York. “It’s fairly fragile.”Bitcoin is largely driven by psychology, said Ross, and its ability to break out of its four-month downtrend and reclaim the 50-day moving average are going to be part of the repair process.“Of course when you have a 65 percent, 66 percent decline like that, but you’re still technically in an uptrend, that is going to attract some interest," said Ross. "The story hasn’t changed, only the price has."The cryptocurrency market has benefited from the end of tax-related selling and the fading of regulatory-related headlines, while Wall Street is signaling increased interest in the asset class."The true test of this post-tax date rally will be a sustained move back above $10,000," said John Spallanzani, a portfolio manager at Miller Value Partners in Baltimore. "That is the key level for bulls to retake."

2018-05-02T20:29:55.738Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/square-projects-profit-that-may-miss-estimates-on-expense-growth
Square Inc. projected profit in the current quarter that fell short of analysts estimates on higher spending for its expansion beyond payments processing.Earnings, excluding some items, will be 9 cents to 11 cents per share in the second quarter, San Francisco-based Square said Wednesday in a statement. Analysts estimated 12 cents per share. Operating expenses gained 47 percent to $276 million in the first quarter.While reporting first-quarter sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates, Square’s shares declined as much as 7.5 percent in extended trading, suggesting investors have set a high bar for the company. The stock has rallied more than 40 percent this year, closing at $48.66 in New York, on the view that Square has matured from a credit-card processor for street vendors to a one-stop shop tying together hardware and software needs for larger merchants with multiple stores.Ancillary products such as loans, food delivery, instant deposits, accounting, and inventory tracking are contributing to a growing share of revenue. Square agreed to buy website builder Weebly last month for $365 million in its biggest acquisition yet, giving the company another recurring revenue stream and base of new customers. The deal will help Square “become more deeply embedded in the blurring lines between physical, e-commerce, and mobile apps,” Josh Beck, an analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets Inc., wrote in a note to investors.The company’s first-quarter expenses grew the most in product development and sales and marketing, as the company invested in services like the Square Cash app, which lets people transfer money to friends and family.“We see an ability to keep re-investing for growth,” Chief Financial Officer Sarah Friar said. “Sales and marketing is growing because we are re-investing in our sellers.”Square reported that adjusted revenue rose 51 percent to $307 million in the quarter, compared with analysts average estimate of $293.7 million. It was the 10th consecutive quarter that Square topped analysts’ sales projections. The company processed $17.8 billion in gross payment volume, an increase of 31 percent from a year earlier.Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey, who also runs Twitter Inc., has pushed the company deeper into financial services. It has rolled out Bitcoin trading for almost all users of its cash payments app. The company said adjusted revenue from Bitcoin was $200,000 in the quarter. Square also offers a debit card to consumers that draws on funds from the cash app.Adjusted earnings before interest, tax depreciation and amortization were $36 million in the first quarter, compared with analysts’ average estimate $33.9 million.

2018-05-04T13:09:27.681Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-04/new-money-on-west-coast-flexes-crypto-muscle-to-help-homeless
Many of Silicon Valley’s tech moguls, venture capitalists and financiers are still building their empires, and most have decades to go before they have to start worrying about their legacies.But at a gala Thursday night in San Francisco, America’s newly wealthy showed they can raise some serious money to fight poverty in the Bay Area. The nonprofit Tipping Point Community brought in more than $14 million by the next day.Promoting the virtual currencies accepted during the pledge drive.In a sign of just how new much of the wealth is, the organization accepted Bitcoin, Ripple and Ethereum for the first time this year. A who’s who of the digital currency world had gathered: Chris Larsen, CEO of Ripple; Brian Armstrong, co-founder and chief executive of Coinbase; Dan Morehead, founder and CEO of Pantera Capital Management; Micky Malka of Ribbit Capital and Ted Janus of J Capital.“It’s great to see in the Bay Area because this is all about making sure that wealth is getting to people who need it most, and this helps lubricate that goal," Larsen said.Morehead sat one table over. “It’s a productive and worthwhile application from a nonprofit that’s driven by some of the most innovative minds in San Francisco."“I think a lot more charities will be accepting crypto in the future," Armstrong said.Micky Malka of Ribbit Capital, Coinbase’s Brian Armstrong and David Marcus of FacebookChris Larsen and Pete BrigerDevon and Dan Morehead“Trust me, no one is doing this in New York yet," said auctioneer Lydia Fenet, who made the trip from Christie’s in Manhattan to lead the donation drive after dinner.The crypto gifts -- made with a QR code printed in the program -- will be converted to dollars and spent within the next fiscal year, Tipping Point spokeswoman Marisa Giller said. The organization raises money from scratch annually to support grantees, develop new solutions and scale proven ones. The board pays all expenses. The nonprofit received its first Bitcoin donation (outside the annual benefit’s pledge drive) in 2014.Accepting crypto at a gala is the new thing in Silicon Valley - when will NY catch up? https://t.co/gQgIFDpQJc pic.twitter.com/Qx9CvTwUH5Led by Daniel Lurie, a former staffer of New York’s Robin Hood Foundation, Tipping Point brings a tech and data-driven approach to education, employment, housing and early childhood development that’s earned it a following among the region’s developing philanthropists. It’s tapping their intellectual and financial capital.Facebook’s David Marcus helped create Tipping Point’s Messenger bot, which drills down on the issues. Tibco Software analyzed parking-ticket data to see how citations burden people with low incomes. Grantees have built Salesforce.com databases to track participants to improve outcomes.“If there’s one place in the world that can solve this, it’s the Bay Area,” said Alan Waxman, chief investment officer of TPG Sixth Street Partners. It’s not just the “massive wealth creation that has taken place and will take place in the next five years,” Waxman said, but the technology, smarts, passion -- and Tipping Point’s leadership. “I hope it can be done in other cities," he added.Policy is becoming a more visible tool for Tipping Point. The group’s chairman, Chris James of hedge fund Partner Fund Management, said mayoral candidates in San Francisco’s June special election signed on to a Tipping Point pledge to secure 1,000 units of housing for the homeless within their first year in office.The region is facing some urgent issues. Tipping Point raised $33 million in response to the North Bay fires, and committed $100 million to reduce by half the number of chronically homeless people in San Francisco by 2022. That’s about 2,100 people who have been on the streets for more than a year and with a mental or physical disability.In a city where the average income of the top 1 percent of households is $3.6 million, there’s an increasing sense of responsibility.Poverty is “in your face” here, Kate Harbin Clammer of Source Capital said. At a Christmas party at the Homeless Prenatal Program, her kids served food, handed out gifts and helped children select books. “It was really great for the kids, for me to be able to say, ‘This is not a party for you, we are here to work,’” Clammer said.Adam Clammer and Kate Harbin ClammerLike the Robin Hood Foundation benefit, Tipping Point’s is a big, fun party with music (this year from Leon Bridges and DJ Kiss) and stories from the people it serves. Thursday at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium, Brittney Venter, a former foster youth, spoke of the support she got from the San Francisco State Guardian Scholars Program. She’s now a social worker at the hospital where she went as a kid to get off the streets.In the auction, Andrew Wilson, CEO of Electronic Arts, and a chair of the event, agreed to give a private tour of his firm’s studio in Vancouver. In the Motion Capture Lab, four visitors will be turned into digital avatars, and one will appear in an upcoming game. The package was sold twice, raising $240,000.Seen among the more than a thousand guests: Joe Gebbia, co-founder and chief product officer at Airbnb; Ned Segal, chief financial officer of Twitter; Max Levchin, co-founder of PayPal and his wife Nellie, a partner at HVF Investments; Lo Toney of GV, the venture arm of Alphabet Inc.; Juliet de Baubigny of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; Ev Williams of Medium; Jed York, John Lynch and Jimmy Garoppolo of the San Francisco 49ers; Marshawn Lynch of the Oakland Raiders; Kirsten Green of Forerunner Ventures; and Kevin Marchetti of Lineage Logistics.Angelique and Andrew WilsonSan Francisco 49ers GM John Lynch and Marshawn Lynch of the Oakland RaidersNellie and Max Levchin

2018-05-01T17:55:05.317Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-01/buffett-s-distaste-for-crypto-fails-to-thwart-heinz-s-bacon-coin
Warren Buffett has said cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin will come to a “bad ending.” He probably wasn’t referring to cholesterol.Kraft Heinz Co.’s Oscar Mayer unit is issuing a limited number of digital tokens called Bacoins that can be exchanged for the company’s bacon. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is part of the investor group controlling the food giant. A Bacoin traded for 11 slices of bacon at noon Tuesday in New York, according to a website for the marketing gimmick.— With assistance by Luke Kawa

2018-05-03T20:30:18.607Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-03/stock-market-trapped-by-lines-on-a-chart
It's one of the bigger head-scratchers in markets. Companies are posting their biggest earnings gains in years and yet equities can't muster any upward momentum. That was evident on Thursday, with the S&P 500 Index falling for the third time this week, bringing its losses to 2.91 percent from last month’s high.Stocks will eventually break out of their funk, as the fundamentals always win out in the long run. But in the meantime, trading patterns rule, and on that basis it's become evident that stocks are stuck in a trap —  a bear trap, to be more precise. According to the equity strategists at Bloomberg Intelligence, a lack of buying power has left the S&P 500 stuck in an "ominous descending triangle formation" below its 50-day moving average but above its 200-day one. This means, in the short term, since the S&P 500 broke below its late-April low of about 2,634, then it's likely to continue falling at an accelerating pace, perhaps to below 2,600. A break beneath that would reignite downside risk, with the next key support level near 2,500, which was last seen in September.Of course, many investors give as much credence to technical analysis as they do to voodoo. But that's not to say there isn't plenty for them to worry about. Although earnings-per-share estimates for the year have crept higher, that's only because of the better-than-expected first-quarter results. "The outlook for limited top-line expansion amid inflationary pressures, and rapid deceleration in 2019 EPS growth, may hang over the market," BI strategists Gina Martin Adams and Kevin Kelley wrote in a research note on Thursday. "These concerns may need to be alleviated before stocks can power out of their malaise."EUROPE TO THE (BOND) RESCUEThe U.S. bond market, by virtue of its position as the world's biggest, rightly garners most of the attention and commentary. But if the recent selloff proves short-lived and bonds start recovering, investors may have Europe to thank. Euro zone bonds soared Thursday after Eurostat in Luxembourg said consumer-price growth unexpectedly weakened to 1.2 percent last month and the core rate, excluding volatile items such as food, was the lowest in more than a year at just 0.7 percent. Both measures were below most economists’ estimates. Yields on German 10-year bonds fell 5 basis points to 0.532 percent, the biggest drop since March. In fact, yields on all major euro zone government bonds dropped, and all are trading below their three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rally even ignited demand for U.S. bonds, with 10-year Treasury yields falling 2 basis points to 2.95 percent. Given how connected the global economy has become, many investors find it hard to believe that low inflation — and sluggish growth — in a large part of the world such as the euro zone won't influence inflation rates in another, such as the U.S. "Europe missed the memo about rising global inflation," Jim Vogel, an interest-rate strategist at FTN Financial, wrote in a research note. "This might not be a major long-term development, but it's still a surprise in the wrong direction versus the Fed's grand view that prices have broken upward."DOLLAR SUFFERS RELAPSEIt felt a bit like 2017 in the foreign-exchange market on Thursday. That's to say the dollar tumbled despite some pretty good economic news out of the U.S., the euro rallied even though the inflation data out of Europe was soft and emerging-market currencies jumped. Those moves, which were commonplace last year, had all but disappeared in recent weeks as the dollar rallied amid a pretty severe short squeeze as traders unwound some of their lucrative bearish bets. The Bloomberg Dollar Index fell as much as 0.46 percent, its biggest decline in six weeks. Few traders want to be long the dollar and betting that it can continue to rally heading into the important monthly jobs report on Friday because the risk is skewed toward disappointment. The employment portions of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly manufacturing and nonmanufacturing indexes this week both showed a drop in April from March. Cornerstone Macro head of technical analysis Carter Worth wrote in a research note that the time is right to “fade" the dollar's rally, having previously predicted a strengthening, according to Bloomberg News's Arie Shapira. On Feb. 5, when the ICE U.S. Dollar Index closed around 89.6, Worth said that an index of about 91 was “a very reasonable price objective.” The index touched 92.8 on Wednesday, its highest since December.CRY FOR ARGENTINAThe country's peso dropped to a record low as concern grew that the central bank’s decision to reduce the pace of intervention in the foreign-exchange market will pave the way for further declines in the currency. After spending almost 10 percent of its reserves this year to stem the peso’s decline, the central bank raised its key interest rate to 30.25 percent at a surprise meeting last Friday, citing higher-than-expected inflation. Concern about the central bank’s inability to manage inflation and the government’s inability to narrow its fiscal deficit is spreading, according to Bloomberg News's Ignacio Olivera Doll and Andres R. Martinez. Telecom Argentina SA, the nation’s largest telecommunications company, postponed a $1 billion bond sale because of the market volatility. Recall that Argentina earned plaudits last year when it sold $2.75 billion in 100-year bonds, a sign that Mauricio Macri’s administration had ushered in a new phase of financial dependability. Those bonds now trade at 87.445 cents on the dollar as investors question the central bank’s credibility and global emerging-market assets slide, according to Bloomberg News's Aline Oyameda and Ben Bartenstein. "Argentina, despite some significant reforms, is still left with a massive fiscal deficit and large imbalances in its external account," said Delphine Arrighi, a money manager at Old Mutual in London.TRADE TIFF FALLOUTChina has yet to impose tariffs on imports of U.S. soybeans, but the country’s traders are already canceling American shipments, according to the latest trade data. Weekly numbers numbers released Thursday by the U.S. Department of Agriculture show China canceled import commitments in the week ended April 26, Bloomberg News reports. Total commitments for the so-called crop marketing year that started in September now stand at 28.7 million metric tons, 133,700 tons lower than a week earlier.The total has fallen for three consecutive weeks, the first time that’s happened since 2015. The data reinforce comments from the chief executive officer of grain-trading giant Bunge Ltd., who said on Wednesday that China has essentially stopped buying U.S. supplies. “Whatever they’re buying is non-U.S.,” Soren Schroder told Bloomberg News. “They’re buying beans in Canada, in Brazil, mostly Brazil, but very deliberately not buying anything from the U.S.” China last month announced planned tariffs on U.S. shipments of soybeans. A U.S. team led by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross landed Thursday morning in Beijing and were scheduled to meet Chinese officials in the afternoon and for dinner, the State Department said.TEA LEAVESBy all measures, the monthly U.S. jobs report to be released Friday will reinforce the notion of a strong labor market. The median estimate among economists surveyed by Bloomberg News is that the economy added 193,000 jobs last month, up from 103,000 and in line with the average over the past five years. As such, the report is unlikely to sway the outlook for monetary policy. But that doesn't mean there isn't the potential for plenty of action in the markets. The top-ranked rates strategist at BMO Capital polled their clients and found that 58 percent said they would step in and buy if the bond market were to sell off on the report, the highest such percentage in years. That would suggest that the bond market may not be in such terrible shape despite benchmark Treasury 10-year yields rising to 3 percent and generating losses for investors so far this year.DON'T MISSCredit Cracks Are Showing. Here's Where to Look: Robert BurgessA Bear Market Would Massacre Active Mutual Funds: Eric BalchunasA Popular Emerging Markets Trade Falls Out of Favor: Shuli RenSterling Believed Carney. That Didn't Work Out: Marcus AshworthBitcoin Struggles to Scale Wall Street Pinnacle: Stephen Gandel This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Robert Burgess at bburgess@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Daniel Niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-30T14:37:22.047Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-30/companies-want-buybacks-to-be-easier
People are worried about stock buybacks.One reason that people sometimes worry about stock buybacks is that they are supposedly a form of market manipulation: If a company buys its own stock, it’s probably because it wants the stock to go up, and that is arguably manipulative. People who dislike stock buybacks often make this argument. But people who like stock buybacks also seem to assume that they are a little manipulative, and so you often get articles where people worry that, without enough corporate buybacks, there’ll be no one to prop up the prices of stocks. And in fact the original understanding, way back in ancient financial history, was that corporate stock buybacks were probably illegal market manipulation, and so companies rarely did them. And then in 1982 the Securities and Exchange Commission came along with Rule 10b-18, which gives companies a “safe harbor” from manipulation liability if they follow its requirements. The requirements are basically designed to limit the impact on the stock: Companies can’t buy more than about a quarter of their stock’s volume, or buy at the beginning or the end of the day, and they can’t push the stock up by paying more than the highest independent bid (or the last trading price, if that’s higher) for the stock. If the market for a stock is $10.00 bid, $10.02 offered, and the last trade was at $10.00, the company can’t come in and bid $10.02 to get more shares, because that might be viewed as manipulative.Some people are weirdly mad about these rules:But the “safe harbor” rules have not been revised since 2003 and critics say they do not reflect the electronic, fragmented nature of today’s markets, which makes share repurchase orders easy to spot and trade in front of by high-speed trading firms, leading to higher prices for companies that buy back stock.“Everybody knows there is a corporate order flow so they front-run it and that just pisses me off because they will raise the price high enough where then they will sell it back to me. That’s just not fair,” Gary Barth, assistant treasurer at United Parcel Service Inc, told Reuters.Okay first of all I am not a corporate treasurer but I have some doubts about this story. I agree that it is inconvenient for corporate buybacks not to be allowed to cross the spread: Companies “cannot buy shares at the best offer available” ($10.02 in my example), because they are stuck paying the best bid, which can slow down their purchases. And I agree that “everyone knows there is a corporate order flow” because companies do have to announce their buybacks in advance. But I am skeptical that all the evil high-frequency traders can recognize corporate order flow—by its non-aggressiveness, its refusal to cross the spread—and then jump in to “front-run” it. Corporate buyers aren’t the only buyers who try to avoid crossing the spread to bid up stock. And intuitively you’d expect aggressive buying—the kind that crosses the spread, takes out higher price levels, etc.—to push up the price; quietly sitting on the bid should have less of an impact. After all, the point of the SEC rules is to reduce the impact of corporate buying.Also: What is the point of a buyback, anyway? I tend to think that the most reasonable purpose of a corporate buyback is mostly to return cash to investors in a tax-efficient way, and the second-most-reasonable purpose is to buy back the company’s own stock when it is undervalued, but there really are a lot of proponents of the theory that the purpose is to keep the price of the stock up. And that theory has some foundation: The company wants its shareholders to be happy, after all, and a high stock price is the main source of shareholder happiness. So if high-frequency traders really are spotting corporate buybacks and pushing the price up, then perhaps corporate treasurers should think of that not as “front-running” but as “leverage”: They get more of a stock-price impact per dollar that they spend, because other traders are also buying stock alongside them and pushing the price up more. Again I do not quite believe this—again it is exactly what Rule 10b-18 is meant to prevent—but if you’re a corporate treasurer who does believe it, then you might conclude it’s a good thing.Also here is UPS’s description of its share buyback program:From time to time, we enter into share repurchase programs with large financial institutions to assist in our buyback of company stock. These programs allow us to repurchase our shares at a price below the weighted average UPS share price for a given period. During the fourth quarter of 2016, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase program, which allowed us to repurchase $300 million of shares (2.6 million shares). The program was completed in December 2016.In order to lower the average cost of acquiring shares in our ongoing share repurchase program, we periodically enter into structured repurchase agreements involving the use of capped call options for the purchase of UPS class B shares. We pay a fixed sum of cash upon execution of each agreement in exchange for the right to receive either a pre-determined amount of cash or stock. Upon expiration of each agreement, if the closing market price of our common stock is above the pre-determined price, we will have our initial investment returned with a premium in either cash or shares (at our election).Yeah I mean … these guys are not just idly sitting on the bid worrying that the market is getting ahead of them, you know? They’ve actually found a way to get paid a premium if the market gets ahead of them.In any case:Exchange operator IEX Group has petitioned the SEC to let firms buying back shares do so using hidden orders that only execute at the midpoint between the best bid and the best offer. That would make it difficult to move the stock price while making the activity harder to spot.Honestly that should probably be allowed; hidden midpoint peg orders do not seem like a particularly aggressive way to manipulate up stock prices. But mostly I love this story because it is a showdown between two of my favorite unfairly maligned financial villains. On the one hand, you’ve got corporate buybacks, which are widely criticized for wasting corporate cash and enriching executives and shareholders at the expense of workers. (Also for being manipulative, sure.) On the other hand, you’ve got high-frequency traders, who are widely criticized for front-running legitimate investors. Now the corporate treasurers, who people think are manipulating their stocks, want permission to manipulate those stocks a bit more, to save them from the high-frequency traders, who they think are front-running them as they try to manipulate the stocks. Which side will get less popular sympathy?Elsewhere: “Apple expected to boost shareholder returns by at least $100bn.”People are worried about unicorns.I half-joked the other day that “WeWork’s business model is getting SoftBank to buy beer for software workers,” but of course that basic idea—rapidly growing a business by selling its products below cost, subsidized by huge venture-capital investments, in the hopes of one day flipping to profitability once you’ve achieved scale—is pretty standard in Silicon Valley. There are, for instance, many who believe that Uber Technologies Inc.’s product is a below-cost taxi service subsidized by tens of billions of dollars of venture-capital funding. A basic law of finance is that where there is a well-known business model that reliably produces uneconomic decisions—index-fund rebalancing, or let’s say corporate buybacks—then someone will arbitrage it. And here he is:A new type of bargain hunter has found an Eden in the epicenter of the tech boom. The city is full of growth-hungry startups rich with venture capital, which offer consumers free trials and discounts on a scale that dwarfs the grocery-store coupon flier.Such profligacy helped Mr. Yu cover most of the cost of purchasing a used Mini Cooper convertible, provided months of free meals, made him bitcoin rich and landed him on charter jets free.“The entire S.F. economy is V.C. subsidized,” said Mr. Yu, who last year co-founded a blockchain technology startup called Stream. “It’s a historical world of excess.”There is even an automated scalable version with a pleasingly literal name:Elad Ossadon and Noam Szpiro, who work in software engineering, have become referring pros. In 2016, they created a website called VC Fund My Life, which catalogs discounts and freebies. When a user signs up for the startups listed, they get a referral bonus ….Is this … a … good … way to run an economy? You can imagine, if you want—and lots of techno-utopians do—that we are on the cusp of the end of scarcity, a new productivity revolution in which robots will produce everything necessary for human life, freeing us from the need to work. If that is true, or true-ish, or close to true, or possibly true in the very far future, then the big problem will be the distribution of prosperity: If robots produce abundance but eliminate jobs, the concern is that the people—tech founders and venture capitalists, probably—who own the robots will become unimaginably rich and powerful, while the people who don’t will be unemployed and dependent on those founders and VCs for their necessities. Various solutions to this (rather distant and abstract) problem have been proposed, of which two of the most prominent are (1) socialist revolution and (2) a universal basic income; Silicon Valley types seem to like option (2) in part because it might forestall option (1). But that is not the entire choice set! You could have lots of other ways to redistribute tech wealth to everyone. For instance the VCs could own the robots and just give away their services. Why would the VCs do that? Well, to forestall a socialist revolution, would be one answer. Out of the goodness of their hearts and a sense of noblesse oblige, would be another. But it is pleasing to imagine that the VCs might give away their products because they are (1) rapacious growth-hungry capitalists and (2) confused. “Please give me free food so that you can grow your daily active user base,” you’d say to the robot-farm monopoly, and its owners would reply “yes, scale, we must scale, here is your food,” and you’d be pleased to have put one over on capitalism.Obviously the other possibility is that the VCs are completely right about the power of scaling and the functioning of the profitability switch, and that once they give away enough products to become ubiquitous, they can take over the world. Arguably Facebook Inc. is the paradigm here. But if the basic business model of post-post-post-modern capitalism consists of venture capitalists giving people free stuff in order to pursue perpetual user growth, then that model actually seems pretty well suited to address the problems of the future.On the other hand.There are other financing models. Tesla Inc.’s, for instance:Tesla is holding customer deposits for two vehicles that aren’t even in production yet: an electric Tesla Semi ($20,000 deposit) and a next-generation Roadster (either $50,000 down or the $250,000 retail price paid up front to reserve a limited edition). ...There’s an additional source of free money from loyal believers: An unknown number of customers have paid up for vehicle features—$3,000 for “Full Self Driving” capability, for example—that Tesla thus far hasn’t figured out or released to anyone.The consumer psychology that sees hundreds of thousands of people essentially extending an interest-free loan to a public company is unusual, to say the least. “I would offer a kidney to him if he needed it,” says one Tesla repeat customer about Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk. Obviously this is the opposite model: Instead of powerful tech companies giving free stuff to customers, this is customers giving free stuff to powerful tech companies. Free stuff like money, sure. Or kidneys. Please, powerful technology billionaire, take my body parts. My sacrifice is as nothing compared to the honor of helping you achieve immortality. I have to say it is a much more conventional dystopia! Seriously, in awkward parallel to the rise of VC Fund My Life, we do seem to live in a golden age of companies financing themselves by pre-selling products. When you read textbooks about corporate finance you can find sections about how companies fund themselves using bank debt and bonds and equity and convertible bonds and preferred stock and venture capital and friends-and-family and maxing out their credit cards, as well as by bootstrapping by selling products and reinvesting the proceeds in the business. But it feels like pre-selling products—selling products that haven’t been built yet—has not historically had a prominent place on the menu. But these days Tesla’s customer-financed model is not that unusual. There’s Kickstarter, of course, but there are also hundreds of initial coin offerings, in which ventures fund themselves by (in theory) selling not a share of their profits but rather a token that will ultimately be used to access the network that they’re building, when they build it. Why? Like, why is there so much more early-stage corporate finance through pre-sales than there used to be? Is it just that big companies were always funding themselves by taking up-front cash for long-term contracts, but now particular weird early-stage forms of it gets more attention? Is it a legal arbitrage, in that the requirements for crowd-funding are more lax than the requirements for selling shares, and entrepreneurs flock to the easiest approach? Is it mostly a story of technology: In a pre-internet age you could perhaps pre-sell your product to people in your town who knew and trusted you, but you need the internet, and a particular complex of social and identity and reputational tools on the internet, to find millions of people to trust you without ever meeting you or sampling your product. Or is it mostly fortuitous: Did ICOs happen to get a lot of hype because Bitcoin (not really a product pre-sale) had a boom, and did the ICO boom make people generally more comfortable with pre-buying products that don’t exist, just as one charismatic billionaire was experimenting with financing options including pre-sales and flamethrowers? How’s Ken Moelis doing?Bloomberg’s Sonali Basak and Tom Metcalf profiled Ken Moelis, the just-became-a-billionaire founder of boutique investment bank Moelis & Co., and while I am not sure that obtaining fabulous wealth in the financial sector is primarily a matter of hard work, I will say that this sort of thing was obviously one barrier (no doubt of many) to my achieving that sort of wealth:He often starts dialing the phone at 5 a.m. and will jet across the world to see a client at a moment’s notice. Friends say dinners are frequently interrupted by hours of work calls. One former colleague recalls Moelis insisting on making an extra call at the end of each working day to generate hundreds of additional prospects a year.“Kenny learned maniacal work habits from Milken,” said Don Engel, an early boss of Moelis’s at Drexel Burnham Lambert who now serves on the board of Blink Charging Co., which operates electric-vehicle charging stations. “There was no such thing as a Saturday or Sunday at Drexel.”An extra call compared to what? It’s not like investment bankers universally make 10 calls a day and he made 11. It’s more like, if you were a person who was already going to wake up at 5 a.m. and make calls all day, make one more. If you were a person who was already going to make one more call, make one more than that. It is an infinite loop; eventually you finish your calls for the day at 4:59 a.m., just in time to roll into the next day’s calls.A fair description of my habits as an investment banker would be that I insisted on skipping one call at the end of each working day to generate hundreds of fewer prospects each year. I would come up with excuses not to get on a plane, at a moment’s notice. And now I write a newsletter!Anyway in this era of senior leaders at big investment banks rediscovering the weekend, it is … differentiating? … to have a boutique led by a 24/7 client-pestering champion. Some of the awful workload in banking is about pointless work, but a lot of it really is the value-added but never-ending work of servicing clients and finding new ones, and if the big banks don’t want to do that constantly then I guess there is room for someone else to.Space Bitcoin.From my email inbox:Crypto mining company has decided to launch a balloon equipped with mining equipment into stratosphere. The goal is to mine a bitcoin at the altitude of more than 35,000 meters (more than 100,000 ft) as a symbol of company’s belief the bitcoin’s value will go up.Sure. This is, what, the third space-Bitcoin gimmick we’ve talked about around here? I am going to declare that I no longer care about them, and if you send me a press release about how you’re doing Bitcoin stuff in space, or in a balloon near space, I am going to ignore it. If you start mining Bitcoins in the Marianas Trench, as a symbol of your belief that Bitcoin transaction costs will go down, I will consider it. Also I guess really if Elon Musk puts a Bitcoin mining rig into a Tesla and blasts it to Mars or whatever I will probably have to mention it, but I won’t be happy about it.Things happen.Sprint, T-Mobile in $26.5 Billion Deal to Take On AT&T. Sprint-T-Mobile Deal Faces Tough Path Through Trump’s Washington. DOJ’s Antitrust Case Against AT&T Merger Has Been a Slog. Marathon to Buy Andeavor in $23.3 Billion Oil-Refining Deal. Al Gore’s global equity fund is beating the market. Pimco Pushes Further Into the Lucrative but Risky World of Alternatives. How are David Einhorn and John Paulson doing? SocGen deputy chief quit to limit US penalties over Libor. China Cracks Open Door for Foreign Fund Managers. Blockchain “holds out the promise of using market mechanisms to order your life online, rather than relying on monopolies to do it for you.” Which Antitakover Provisions Matter? Is Stock Market Volatility Good for the Art Market? I’m Sorry To Report Instagram Is Bad Now. It is unfair to gorillas to compare them to alpha men. Wildlife photo competition disqualifies 'stuffed anteater' image. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-05-03T23:00:00.007Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-03/bermuda-government-geeked-out-with-blockchain-fans-after-davos
It was the last day of the World Economic Forum in Davos and Wayne Caines, Bermuda’s minister of national security, was about to head home after an exhausting week. But before leaving, he told a group of blockchain enthusiasts, “If you are really serious about advancing this space and working with us, meet us in Bermuda on Monday.”Then it actually happened. A handful flew to the British territory on their own dime with the same suitcases they had brought to Switzerland, and spent the day with Bermudian government officials laying out a road map to embrace the nascent industry.“It was the coolest thing I’ve ever been involved with,” Caines said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters on Thursday. “There was just so much brilliance in the room and people were so passionate. What I like about people in the blockchain space is they actually want to change the world.”Less than three months later, Bermuda’s lower house of parliament approved rules to regulate initial coin offerings, and the government signed an agreement with Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, promising investments in blockchain companies, jobs and education for Bermudians.Bermuda Premier David Burt discusses the re-insurance industry, financial and cryptocurrency regulation.Bermuda is already at work on a new law, the Digital Asset Business Act, to encourage and regulate investment in the distributed ledger technology and cryptocurrency businesses. There are so many projects in the works that Bermuda Premier E. David Burt jokingly refers to Caines as the “minister of blockchain.”“We are building an ecosystem here,” Burt said. “Bermuda is already an innovation hub, thanks to the reinsurance industry.”At the meeting with the group from Davos, the focus was on the technical aspects of blockchain and how it could fit into regulation, said John Narraway, an emerging technologies consultant at the Bermuda Business Development Agency.“It was just markers out with the smartest people I’ve ever been in a room with,” he said. “We mapped it out within, I think, probably five hours.”Bermuda already is putting property records on the blockchain, and counts about another dozen businesses underway or looking at investing. Patrick Byrne, the chief executive officer of Overstock.com Inc., an online retailer that accepts payment in Bitcoin, also signed an agreement with the government, to set up a blockchain “laboratory” there.Read More: Overstock Says SEC Crypto Probe Threatens Business, ICOThe key to turning Bermuda into an incubator for fintech companies is to build on the country’s legal and regulatory structure, which is key to the success of its reinsurance industry. The government’s “sandbox” will allow companies to work on emerging financial technologies, while communicating directly with regulators.Bermuda’s strategy isn’t without risk. Regulators worldwide are struggling with how to handle ICOs, which raised about $6 billion worldwide last year, often with little or no documentation and frequently providing no return to investors. Financial watchdogs have started to crack down after Bitcoin’s 1,400 percent surge last year attracted scammers to the crypto world. The top digital coin, now worth around $9,700 apiece, has lost about half of its value since hitting a record high in December.Binance, founded last year in Hong Kong, has had troubles of its own. The company is opening an office in Malta after pulling out of Japan to avoid a clash with local regulators, Chief Executive Officer Zhao Changpeng said in an interview last month. Japan’s Financial Services Agency issued a warning to the exchange for operating without approval.The exchange’s troubles mirror those faced by other crypto firms that are trying to figure out how to operate without concrete guidance from regulators. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said that platforms serving as trading venues for digital assets deemed to be securities will need to register with the agency as a national exchange, or qualify for an exemption. The regulator also subpoenaed firms and individuals behind coin offerings it believes might be breaking the law, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said earlier this year.Binance signed a pact with Bermuda, agreeing to spend as much as $15 million to offer college classes on blockchain and invest in companies working with the technology. The courses will start as early as this summer and will focus on compliance and software engineering, Burt said. Professors will be paid to come teach in Bermuda.“We’re hoping this fintech push mirrors the success we had with the insurance industry in the eighties,” said Sean Moran of the Bermuda Business Development Agency. “You have to continue to find what’s next.”

2018-05-03T20:31:39.535Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-03/rudy-giuliani-and-elon-musk-walk-into-a-bear-trap-jgqzkl37
Congratulations – you’re reading Bloomberg Opinion Today, a new newsletter from the new Bloomberg Opinion. Key words here are "new" and "opinions," which you'll get every afternoon in your inbox, sprinkled with charts, analysis and other garnish. Former subscribers to Share the View, Fly Charts and the Daily Prophet will hopefully feel at home. New subscribers are welcome and can sign up here. Stocks had kind of a wild day. Jay-Z is in hot water with the SEC. And Bloomberg has a snazzy new website, complete with a new paywall.Talking is hard, even if you do it for a living.Rudy Giuliani, recently hired to lawyer for President Donald Trump, appeared on Sean Hannity’s Old-Timey Propaganda Hour last night and promptly talked his client into a fresh morass of legal and political jeopardy.On the plus side, he generated billable hours for his fellow lawyers, who crafted CYA tweets for Trump this morning. But even those tweets raise troubling legal questions, warns Noah Feldman. He digs into the theories they and Giuliani espouse and finds “All this makes no sense, in law or in economic logic.”Hours before Giuliani’s bombshell, Tesla Inc. CEO Elon Musk did some freestyling of his own. On a conference call about his company’s quarterly results, he grew weary of Wall Street analysts’ “boring, bonehead” questions about such trivia as “cash flow” and “why can’t you make enough Teslas.” He cut them off, at one point suggesting you shouldn’t even buy Tesla stock if you worry about such foolishness. This promptly drove the electric-car maker into a fresh morass of financial jeopardy; its stock price dropped and its borrowing costs jumped.Both men had one job – use words to make life easier for their client/company – and both failed. It’s almost enough to make you appreciate good spin. Giuliani’s words were arguably more impactful, at best dinging the president’s already shaky credibility.As for Tesla, it’s burning cash and will need to ask investors for more, Liam Denning argues. Musk made that harder, or at least more expensive. Musk, though, seems increasingly convinced that all those people calling him the real-world Tony Stark are onto something. You almost can’t blame him; as Liam  notes in a follow-up, Tesla calls typically are useless celebrations of Musk’s genius. But to paraphrase another guy who used words to spin his way through stuff like invading Iraq: No matter how big you are, even in the Donald Trump era, it still helps to be careful what you say.The Fed stood pat yesterday but needs to watch out for signs of nascent inflation, Bloomberg’s editors say.Money Quote: “Next month, as well as delivering the expected rise in interest rates, the Fed should acknowledge more plainly that conditions are changing.” Kanye West’s fashion sense helped make Adidas relevant. But now that West seems to be losing his common sense, if not his fashion sense (I mean, have you seen his dad style?), Adidas doesn’t need him to be cool anymore, Andrea Felsted writes.Facebook’s new focus on people and connections and butterflies and whatnot sounds great, until you realize it has nothing to do with how Facebook actually, you know, makes money, points out Shira Ovide. (From the Bloomberg Technology newsletter; sign up here.)Goldman Sachs is getting into Bitcoin trading. It’s the kind of bonkers thing that could make banking at Goldman fun again, writes former employee Matt Levine. (Matt has his own newsletter, Money Stuff; sign up here.)Credit markets seem mostly fine and certainly are nowhere near as bananas as in the financial crisis. But there are early signs of trouble brewing, points out Robert Burgess.Blue Apron Holdings Inc. had a good quarter, but is it sustainable? Sarah Halzack is just asking.Express Scripts Holding Co. is trying to play the good guy on drug prices. Max Nisen isn’t buying it.Meet the guy who used an algorithm to make nearly $1 billion betting on horses. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Brooke Sample at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-05-04T09:00:23.987Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-04/here-s-a-radically-free-market-idea-get-rid-of-property-rights
Proposed solutions for inequality are depressingly familiar. Liberals want to raise taxes; conservatives want to cut them; populists in the Trump mold want to exclude immigrants and restrict foreign trade. The centrist business community triangulates between stale agendas. Doesn’t anybody have anything new to offer?Actually, yes: One big new idea is to unleash the awesome power of markets and push them into parts of life where they have never operated before. And at the same time, to design mechanisms that harness markets’ power to uplift the poor. The agenda is conservative in its means, because conservatives like markets, but liberal in its ends. It’s like letting a tiger out of its cage and throwing a saddle on its back. And it just might be what the world needs now.Taking markets more seriously is the thrust of a surprising book, Radical Markets: Uprooting Capitalism and Democracy for a Just Society, scheduled for publication on May 8. It’s by Eric Posner, a University of Chicago Law School professor, and Glen Weyl, an economist and principal researcher at Microsoft Corp. They’re smart and iconoclastic, and their book bursts with ideas like kernels of corn on a hot stove.Certain ideas are dismissed as impossible or offensive until they’re adopted, at which point they’re mysteriously reclassified as obvious all along. The ideas in Radical Markets are still very much in the first stage: impossible, offensive, or both. Weyl claims to be untroubled by that. “Students have a very different reaction than older people,” he says. “Most of the older people are just dismissive. That reaction fuels the students’ interest. When they hear an impassioned argument for a better future, they see it as a chance to rebel.”The authors’ first counterintuitive idea is to let people decide how much they want to pay in property taxes by setting their own valuations for their property. Every kind of property, not just real estate. Why wouldn’t people put extremely low valuations on their belongings to cut their tax bills? Because there’s a catch: You are legally required to sell each item to whoever wants it, whenever they want it, at the price you claimed it’s worth. That incentivizes honesty. To make sure people’s keepsakes aren’t snatched away from them, there could be an exclusion for heirlooms. (No fair calling your Picasso in the living room an heirloom.)The upshot of such a system is that nobody would truly own anything. They’d effectively be renting their stuff for the amount of their annual tax bill. Echoing the radical leftist slogan “property is theft,” the authors declare that “property is monopoly”—and they don’t like monopolies.Putting possessions essentially up for grabs would make infrastructure easier to build without resorting to seizing land by eminent domain. People whose properties are essential to a project would be required to sell at their published asking price. That’s an enticement for business. For the poor and middle class, the Radical Markets approach would shift the tax burden onto the rich, who own most of the world’s things.Self-assessment isn’t a brand-new idea. A time-tested way of dissolving 50-50 partnerships is to require each partner to submit a bid, after which the winner has to buy out the loser at the average of their two bids. (It’s called a “Texas shootout.”) The authors cite economists who have expanded on the idea but acknowledge that no one has pushed it as far as they have. They suggest starting small by applying the approach to public goods such as internet domain names, airwaves, and grazing rights in the American West.There’s not enough room here to air out all the ideas in a 337-page book. But one other big one is to fix democracy by giving people a budget of votes to use as they see fit—skipping some elections to save up votes for a candidate or issue they care a lot about. You could also cast your votes against a candidate, a tactic that isn’t currently possible. The purpose is to determine “whether the intense preferences of the minority outweigh the weak preferences of the majority,” the authors write. To keep fanatics from dominating elections by spending all their votes in one place, each additional vote you cast for an issue or candidate would be worth less than the one before. In a gesture only a nerd could love, the authors call this “quadratic voting,” because voting power would increase as the square root of the number of votes cast.Like self-assessment of property values, quadratic voting encourages people to be honest about their preferences. It also tends to help centrist candidates who don’t attract a lot of “no” votes. The authors estimate a moderate Republican probably would have won the 2016 election if it had been conducted by their method, and Donald Trump “would have come in last.” Aside from elections, quadratic voting could be used right away to improve polling and the ratings systems of such companies as Airbnb Inc. and Uber Technologies Inc., the authors write. They and two others have founded a company, Collective Decision Engines, to commercialize the approach.To fight monopoly power, Posner and Weyl propose tying the hands of giant asset managers such as BlackRock, Vanguard, Fidelity, and State Street. They point to research showing there’s less price competition in industries such as airlines and banking where big investors own stakes in multiple competitors. A price war might help the one company that wins and gains market share, but it would harm overall industry profits, so it’s not in the interest of big investors, who can quietly influence chief executive officers to ease off. Their solution is simple: Without accusing the giant firms of wrongdoing, they say they shouldn’t be allowed to own a big share (i.e. more than 1 percent) of more than one company in a given industry. Passive holders could own as much as they wanted.The book’s boldest idea—or at least the one that’s gotten the most people mad—is to allow each U.S. citizen to sponsor one guest worker from another country for an indefinite period. The migrant would pay the American an agreed-upon sum; the American would be fined if the migrant disappeared. The authors say the biggest beneficiaries would be the migrants, whose wages would soar vs. what they could earn back home. But Americans would profit, too, in part because of one especially controversial feature: no minimum wage.Citizens who compete with the guest workers for jobs could suffer from the downward pressure on wages, but they could also make some money off them, which they can’t do now, Posner and Weyl write. That, they say, would be an improvement over the current situation, in which corporations and well-to-do patrons of au pairs (foreign babysitters) are the only entities that can sponsor and benefit from guest workers.The harshest critics have compared the concept to involuntary servitude. Damon Young, editor-in-chief of the website Very Smart Brothas, said the idea would be a nominee “if there were a Pulitzer for ‘Writing While Aggressively White.’” Responds Weyl: “If people were gaining benefits from migration, it would gradually expose them to both what’s wrong with the world and the benefits of the free flow of people.”Posner and Weyl are used to making people angry. Posner is a prolific essayist and just as much of a free thinker as his father, Richard Posner, the recently retired federal appellate judge. Weyl is also a mold-breaker. He managed to be valedictorian of his class at Princeton in 2007 while simultaneously completing most of the work for a doctorate. “I don’t think I’ve ever taught a smarter student,” says New York University professor Kwame Anthony Appiah, who taught philosophy at Princeton at the time. Yet a decade later, Weyl is working for … Microsoft. (Although he’s also a visiting scholar at Yale.) In an email, Weyl writes that “pursuing the themes I have has not helped my academic career much and has not endeared me to economists.”It’s no surprise that fellow iconoclasts are among Posner and Weyl’s biggest fans. One is Vitalik Buterin, the 24-year-old Canadian-Russian who co-founded Ethereum, the second-most-popular cryptocurrency after Bitcoin. In a scholarly essay about the book on his website in April, he agreed with the authors that markets and property rights are, in his words, “socially constructed,” not just objects found in nature, and can be designed in ways that are “potentially far better than what we have today.” He blessed a chapter in Radical Markets about how to help people gain control over their personal data through market forces, writing, “well, look what the Ethereum community is working on: markets for personal data.”Radical Markets is likely to get a cooler reception from people who’ve been conditioned to think of markets as devices for making the rich richer and the poor poorer. But not all liberals see things that way. If you were trying to name someone who would hate the book for sure, you might think of Michael Sandel, the Harvard political philosopher whose books decry the tendency of markets to crowd out moral and civic ideals. He recently launched a video podcast based on his latest, What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets. Yet Sandel finds a lot to like in the pro-market book. “Their case for taxing property and wealth rather than labor should win them a hearing among those like me who are skeptical of market solutions to all public problems,” he writes in an email.Politically, Weyl is the more liberal of the two authors. He describes Posner as a cynic who despises “socialist crap” and whose goal is to “show how ridiculous standard worldviews are,” while calling himself an idealist who is inspired by The Internationale, a socialist anthem. He says the two handed chapters off to each other for reaction and polishing. “Both of our perspectives show up in the book. It’s stronger for that,” he says.Radical Markets is dedicated to the memory of William Vickrey, a Canadian-born economist at Columbia University who studied how auctions could be used to solve social problems. Vickrey was “the Master Yoda of the economics profession,” the authors write, “silly, carefree, reclusive, absentminded, and a fount of often inscrutable yet world-changing insights.” He died of a heart attack in 1996 just three days after being announced as a winner of the Nobel Prize in economics. He’d been on his way to a conference in Canada when police found him slumped behind the wheel of his car 30 miles north of New York City.Milton Friedman, the great libertarian economist and Nobel laureate who died a decade after Vickrey, inspired Posner and Weyl for another reason: his fearlessness. “Friedman was uncompromising,” says Weyl. “He would go after things that everybody believed. He just made the argument, even if that made problems for people. That was an incredibly persuasive style.”To put it differently, Posner and Weyl didn’t test their messaging with PR firms or focus groups. They acknowledge that “human nature has a way of defeating the best thought-out schemes, both through stubbornness and through its occasionally extreme malleability.” But they point out that some of the ideas in Radical Markets are already seeping into daily life. For example, advertising space on the web is constantly being reallocated via the type of auction proposed by their hero, Vickrey. “Most novel concepts,” they write, “initially seem far-fetched.”

2018-05-03T21:02:21.839Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-03/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jgr0o1k8
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereChina trade talks, Alibaba earnings and U.S. payrolls set the stage for an eventful end to the week. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.The U.S. and China wrapped up their first day of trade talks on Thursday, without giving any sense of progress on a deal to stop an escalation of trade barriers. Senior officials declined to comment to reporters upon arrival at their hotel after the meetings, but a White House economist described the first day as "fairly positive." Talks are expected to resume on Friday, and data out overnight may complicate matters. The U.S. Commerce Department reported that America’s merchandise trade gap with China widened by 16% to $91.1 billion in the first quarter. A separate report confirmed China is canceling U.S. shipments of soybeans.Jack Ma’s shopping spree is starting to weigh on Alibaba’s bottom line just as profit and revenue growth ease. Investors have shaved $61 billion off its market value to voice their displeasure. Alibaba is projected to post its first decline in profit in a year and a half -- the result of folding in major loss-making businesses and heightened spending to fend off a charge by Tencent into retail and payments. While revenue is expected to climb 53 percent to 59 billion yuan ($9.3 billion), that would actually be its smallest gain in seven quarters. Investments into logistics, cloud computing and physical retail have come at a cost, coupled with a global technology selloff.U.S. stocks rallied back from a four-week low, with major averages bouncing off of key technical levels, but still ended down for the second straight day. The S&P 500 recovered more than 1 percent from session lows, buoyed by tech shares. The rebound came after the gauge slumped through its 200-day moving average, a level that has provided downside support five times since February. The rally was hampered by falling Treasury yields, which weighed on financial firms. The slide in EM equities continued unabated, however, with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index tumbling 1.2 percent, its third-straight loss. Argentina and Turkey remain in investors’ cross hairs, with both nations’ currencies tumbling amid concerns over central bank policy.Investors should just relax, according to Goldman Sachs. Appetite for riskier assets such as stocks and high-yield bonds has been suppressed by a number of factors that have come up around the same time, but the headwinds may be transitory, according to the firm. Economists point to the sideways movement in the S&P 500 Index since the early-February market meltdown as evidence that nervous traders are unwilling to take a stance. “First, we maintain our conviction in the strong outlook for global growth despite the recent dip in global activity indicators. Second, concerns over monetary tightening are likely overdone. Third, the technical headwinds that have weighed on risk sentiment look likely to ease.”Trade talks will dominate Friday's agenda once again. Investors will also be mining the RBA's Quarterly Monetary Policy statement for clues to Australia’s outlook. Also due: Philippines CPI, PMI reports for Singapore and Hong Kong, along with Malaysian trade figures. When they return from their weekend, they’ll have Friday's U.S. jobs data to digest. Economists are predicting a rebound in nonfarm payrolls after a surprisingly weak March, and investors will be looking closely at whether wage growth accelerated in April.This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds

2018-05-04T14:28:59.362Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-05-04/bond-traders-can-lie-to-customers-again
Litvak et al.Yesterday Jesse Litvak—the former Jefferies Group LLC mortgage-backed securities trader who was convicted of defrauding clients, got his conviction reversed, was convicted again, and went to prison—got his conviction reversed again. Good for him, though it comes about a third of the way through his two-year prison sentence, so it’s not quite as good as it would have been if he hadn’t been convicted in the first place. Or in the second place. Litvak, remember, was a mortgage-bond trader who would buy bonds from one customer, sell them to another customer, and lie to one or both customers about the price he was getting on the other side. In his first trial he was convicted of a bunch of counts of fraud for doing this, but in the second trial he was convicted of fraud for only a single trade. (This description is based on the appeals court’s opinion yesterday.) A customer had put out a bid-wanted-in-competition, asking banks (including Jefferies) to bid on a list of bonds that it owned. Litvak canvassed the interest in those bonds from his customers, and had one customer—Brian Norris at Invesco Ltd.—who wanted to buy a particular bond on the list.Norris told Litvak to bid 79-24 (i.e. $79.75 per $100 principal amount) for the bonds, but that was just a suggestion; Litvak was trying to buy the bonds for his own account to resell to Norris. In fact, Litvak bid 79-16 for the bonds, and bought them at that price. But he told Norris “bid your level,” and “Norris then proposed to buy the bond from [Litvak] for 79-30, asking ‘6 ticks cool? 79-30 to me?’” Litvak agreed and sold the bonds to Norris for 79-30; Norris though he’d paid 6/32s for Litvak’s efforts, but in fact he’d paid 14/32s, a difference of over $73,000 on the actual amount of bonds they traded. Was this fraud? Yes, the jury decided, but it’s a little weird, because Litvak was charged with doing a lot of very similar stuff, which the jury did not find was fraud. What’s the difference? Well, one thing is that in the Invesco trade “Litvak altered an electronic chat to make it appear that he paid more for the bond than he did,” and then forwarded the altered chat to Norris. The jury might have concluded that lying to customers about bond prices is not fraud, but that altering documents to support those lies is. But that’s not what the appeals court’s decision is about. Instead it focuses on a different distinction: Unlike most of the other customers whom Litvak lied to, Norris testified that he trusted Litvak. Or, not quite; rather Norris “testified that he believed [Litvak] to be his agent, and that broker-dealers ‘serve as an agent in between [buyers and sellers].’” If Litvak was acting as Norris’s agent, buying bonds from the seller on Norris’s behalf, then he would have fiduciary duties to Norris that he would not have if he was just an arms’-length counterparty trying to sell Norris bonds.Was Litvak Norris’s agent? Nope nope nope nope nope! The appeals court’s description of the role of the dealer in bond markets—in financial markets generally, really—is worth quoting extensively:An essential feature of all of these trades, however, is that the broker-dealer acts solely in its own interest as a principal. The broker-dealer continually tracks potential buyers and sellers, their interests in particular kinds of RMBS, and their ongoing acceptable price ranges. It seeks to profit from transactions in the securities by buying low and selling high. ... The broker-dealer assumes the risk of buying the bond, and an institutional investor can refuse to purchase a bond held by the broker-dealer even when the investor caused the broker-dealer to purchase it by an expression of interest, i.e., in an order or BWIC trade. Such an investor may also have no investment purpose but may intend to resell the bond immediately, and at a higher price, to another institution it knows to be interested.A broker-dealer is not, therefore, an agent for its counterparties in these trades and owes them no special or fiduciary duty. In a sale by a counterparty to a broker-dealer, the counterparty has no legitimate expectation that the broker-dealer will resell the bond at the price paid to the counterparty. Similarly, in a purchase, the counterparty has no legitimate expectation of purchasing a bond at the price paid by the broker-dealer. Rather, the broker-dealer and counterparty each have their own price ranges in which they will consummate their ends of the transactions. The final price is determined in an arms-length negotiation and, if agreed upon, will be somewhere in the overlap of price ranges.But that’s not just what the appeals court thinks. Everyone thinks it. (Except Norris.) As the court says:The lack of an agency relationship is undisputed. The district court instructed the jury that Litvak was not Invesco’s agent. Indeed, the government argued in summation that the agency issue was a “red herring” and that it had never claimed that Litvak was Invesco’s agent.Even Invesco doesn’t think Litvak was its agent: “Indeed, Invesco’s compliance personnel had informed Norris (before the transaction) that broker-dealers were not agents of bond buyers in BWIC trades.” But Norris testified that he thought it anyway. The government argued that this showed that Norris trusted Litvak and therefore that Litvak’s lies were material to him, and that trust shows that market expectations were that bond traders won’t lie to customers. The court disagreed:While the individual views of a counterparty trader may usually be relevant to the nature of the market involved and as to the beliefs of a reasonable investor, a reasonable investor would not misperceive the role of a broker-dealer in the RMBS market. In fact, Norris received material from Invesco’s legal and compliance department stating that, in transactions such as the one here, broker-dealers act as principals. His disagreement with that advice was unreasonable. Norris’s indisputably idiosyncratic and unreasonable viewpoint is not, therefore, probative of the views of a reasonable, objective investor in the RMBS market.And yet. One thing that we talk a lot about around here is that, in many of their businesses, banks really do stand in an arms’-length principal relationship to their customers, but take pains to make the customers feel like they’re trusted fiduciaries. That is a good business strategy: If your customers think you’re a good guy who is looking out for their best interests, they will do more business with you, and push back less on price. As a legal strategy it runs some risks. The fact that Norris was so convinced that Litvak was his agent that his compliance officers couldn’t convince him otherwise tells you something about their relationship. It is hard to tell who won, here, exactly. I mean, Litvak has been in prison since September, which seems like a pretty big loss, but on the other hand now he’ll probably get out, so that's a win. I have trouble imagining that they’ll bother with a third trial. The government, in its long-running pursuit of this case, established some key points. Litvak, noted the appeals court, “principally argues that his misstatements were, as a matter of law, immaterial to a reasonable investor in the market for residential mortgage-backed securities.” The appeals court rejected that argument. Lying to customers about the price that you paid for a bond can be fraud. It’s up to a jury to decide—whether the lies were material, whether customers relied on them, etc. That is an important principle for the government to establish, and not an entirely obvious one. Establishing it will presumably accomplish most of what the government wanted to accomplish: If you’re a bond trader, you probably won’t want to risk going to prison by lying to customers about prices.On the other hand, it does kind of seem like juries don’t think it's fraud? Litvak’s jury convicted him of only one count, and that (the court found) because they were presented with a witness who said untrue things about the dealer/customer relationship. And  yesterday, when the appeals court was reversing Litvak’s conviction, a jury was acquitting another former bond trader, David Demos, of very similar charges:Speaking outside the courtroom, Demos called the decision “a complete vindication of everything I’ve fought for, my family has fought for and my lawyers have fought for, for the past three years. Bluffing or lying or puffing about your cost in a negotiation was never a crime, is not a crime and should never be a crime.”I don’t exactly think that should be the lesson that bond traders take away from all of this. And it probably isn’t:Many salespeople no longer reveal how much their banks paid for a bond they’re trying to sell customers, as a matter of firm policy. Traders say they’re more cautious about what they put in emails and chat messages that can be traced. Banks have beefed up their efforts to monitor their employees."People have improved their practices overall," said Elizabeth Baird, a former bond trader and a partner at law firm Morgan, Lewis and Bockius who represents broker-dealers on enforcement issues. "There are better disclosures being made."One way to interpret the Litvak (and related) cases is that they are essentially about prospective regulation by retrospective enforcement. The norms in the mortgage-backed securities market arguably allowed for a certain amount of “bluffing or lying or puffing about your cost,” and while it might be impolite (yesterday’s opinion describes the “penalty box” for traders caught misleading customers), no one thought it was illegal.Federal prosecutors looked into it and decided it ought to be illegal. Federal prosecutors have no real power to make it illegal: They are not securities regulators and can’t write rules saying “no lying about bond prices.” But they have plenty of power to say that it was always illegal: They can bring charges, say that it was fraud, and try to convince juries (and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals) that it is just the sort of securities fraud that has always been prohibited. If that works, then (1) people will (you’d hope) stop doing it in the future, but also (2) some of the people who did it in the past will go to prison.On this interpretation—and I stress that it is not the only possible interpretation; a simpler one would be “it really was always illegal”—then (1) is a perfectly fine result but (2) seems a bit unfair. If prosecutors want to change norms, fine, but why should they throw anyone in prison for following the old norms back before the norms were changed? In a sense—except for the months he’s already spent in prison, and assuming they don’t put him on trial again—the outcome for Litvak gets things more or less right. Bond traders who lie about their cost are on notice that it could be fraud, but for Litvak, it wasn’t.Insider trading and legality.Here are a blog post and related paper from Miriam Baer of Brooklyn Law School with the excellent title “Insider Trading’s Legality Problem,” describing one reason why it’s bad that there's no actual statute defining and prohibiting insider trading:Criminal statutes do more than prohibit wrongdoing; they also allow us to differentiate among the variations of given offenses.Insider trading isn’t merely a civil offense. As in the case of Salman, it often triggers criminal penalties. Criminal law derives its legitimacy in part from the “legality principle,” a set of related rules that demands that criminal laws be duly enacted in advance and in terms specific enough for the average person to understand what is forbidden.When legislatively enacted statutes conform to the legality principle, they do more than provide adequate warning of what is and is not forbidden. Under the best circumstances, they can improve criminal law’s content, precisely because they permit the legislature to think about a family of crimes holistically and differentiate similar, yet morally distinct, conduct. Through differentiation, we become better at singling out the abstract factors that make some crimes worse than others.I agree with this completely but would add that it's not unique to insider trading. Insider trading is part of a very big mishmash of things that just count as “securities fraud.” Insider trading, the stuff Jesse Litvak did, algorithmic spoofing, faking the accounts of a public company, running a Ponzi scheme—all of these things are for the most part prohibited not by statutes about insider trading and bond-price lying and spoofing and accounting and Ponzis, but by a single vague statute about securities fraud.One problem with that is that it is hard to know what counts as fraud, and courts are constantly making new rules about what exactly is illegal in insider trading or bond-price-puffery or whatever. But another problem is that, once something does count as fraud, it counts the same as everything else. The securities-fraud statute doesn’t differentiate one kind of insider trading from another, but it also doesn't differentiate insider trading from Ponzi scheming, or spoofing from accounting fraud. The main practical differentiation is in the sentencing guidelines, and is based on dollar amounts: You go to prison longer if your fraud (or spoofing or insider trading or whatever) involved more dollars. But it seems to me that this is rarely the most important moral distinction; a reasonable legislature might decide that Ponzi schemes are worse than insider trading, and even that a smaller Ponzi is worse than a bigger insider trade. But it doesn’t. Practically all bad stuff with securities is lumped into a single statute, and nobody bothers to figure out which things are worse than the other things. Sergey Aleynikov.Yesterday did not go as well for Sergey Aleynikov as it did for Jesse Litvak and David Demos:A New York state appeals judge upheld a conviction against former Goldman Sachs programmer Sergey Aleynikov on Thursday — likely ending a nine-year court saga over the theft of “secret sauce” trading code used by the banking giant.The decision, written by Judge Eugene M. Fahey, strikes at the heart of Aleynikov’s argument — that he couldn’t possibly have broken larceny laws, because those laws only apply to physical things. I have to say that I sort of stopped following this case because it ended up turning on the dumbest possible questions. Aleynikov put some Goldman Sachs trading code on a thumb drive, walked out the door with it, and got in a lot of trouble. Reasonable questions you might ask include: Should taking the knowledge you gained from a job to a new job be treated as criminal theft? Should two different government prosecutors use the threat of prison to protect Goldman Sachs’s trading edge? Was the code in fact open-source and therefore freely available to Aleynikov?But instead courts have spent years on the bafflingly silly question of whether Aleynikov’s taking of the code counts as “theft” because he took the code on a thumb drive. “The medium upon which an idea is stored is generally physical, whether it is represented on a computer hard drive, vinyl record, or compact disc,” said the court in upholding his conviction and, you know, sure, whatever.Warren Buffett is worried about GAAP accounting.We have discussed this before, but here is a story about how Berkshire Hathaway Inc. “is scheduled to report earnings Saturday morning before its annual meeting, and a new accounting rule could sink results”: Berkshire will now have to mark-to-market its unrealized gains and losses from equity investments through its income statement, meaning that income from its operating businesses may be obscured by moves in the prices of the stocks that it owns. “Gyrations of that magnitude in reported net income will swamp the truly important numbers that describe our operating performance,” said Warren Buffett in his February letter to investors, and next time you see someone—someone like Warren Buffett, even!—say that investors should focus on earnings according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that non-GAAP earnings are deceptive fantasy numbers, just keep in mind that no less a sage than Warren Buffett thinks that GAAP earnings aren’t real either.Elsewhere here is “How to Look Like a Pro at Buffettpalooza This Weekend.” I will not be attending Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting, so I did not read it, but I assume there’s a bunch of stuff about ping-pong and Cherry Coke and other Buffett fandom signifiers. Here you go.You might say that Shawn Carter, a/k/a Jay-Z, like most people, deals with a number of concerns in his life, and among those concerns you might count the Securities and Exchange Commission subpoena that he got yesterday. If you were so inclined. To put it like that.Honestly, the poor guy, every problem that he ever has comes with the additional meta-problem of people constantly making the same tired joke about it. Do you think that when he stubs his toe, Beyoncé is there to be like “yup you got 99 problems and that toe is one sorry I don’t make the rules.”Oh the subpoena is because “the SEC is investigating potential violations of the federal securities laws related to the financial reporting of New York-based Iconix Brand Group, Inc., which paid Carter more than $200 million to acquire intangible assets associated with Carter's Rocawear apparel brand,” and Carter keeps not showing up to testify about it. I don’t really blame him. He’ll probably show up at the SEC’s offices and they’ll begin “Mr. Carter, would it be accurate to say that Iconix had 99 problems and an accounting write-down of Rocawear intangible assets was one?”Things happen.How Morgan Stanley Got Its Mojo Back. “To say they’re highly disappointed in Theranos as a company and an investment is an understatement.” At $1 Trillion, Leveraged Loans Are Closing In on Junk Bonds. Watch Out: Junk Bonds Are Getting Junkier. Wall Street’s Big Gender Lawsuit Is 13 Years in the Making. Volkswagen Ex-CEO Martin Winterkorn Indicted in Emissions Probe. Walmart Beats Amazon in $15 Billion Flipkart Battle. How Criminals Steal $37 Billion a Year from America’s Elderly. Goldman to treble Swedish office as post-Mifid equities hub. Musk Takes Aim at Two Analysts for Pushing ‘Tesla Short Thesis.’ A Small College’s Endowment Manager Beat Harvard With Index Funds. Heat your house by mining Bitcoins. The Gambler Who Cracked the Horse-Racing Code. Even Wall Street Couldn’t Protect Toms Shoes From Retail’s Storm. Mystery pooper at N.J. high school's track turned out to be superintendent, cops say. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-30T09:00:12.154Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-30/one-kuwaiti-family-office-says-legacy-is-worth-more-than-money
Mohammad Al Duaij drives a 13-year-old Range Rover, which seems kind of odd for someone who’s from a well-known wealthy family in Kuwait. “My friends make fun of me and say, ‘Oh, you’re from a rich family and the CEO of a company and you’re still using an old car,’ ” he says. “It’s not about showing off.”Al Duaij runs Alea Global Group, a single-family office that invests the wealth his family accumulated through a string of businesses stretching back to the 17th century. The Al Duaij family started Alea in 1998, managing a portfolio that was focused mostly on real estate in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia and private equity in the Persian Gulf region and Europe. Al Duaij, 37, took over in 2008 and expanded the company’s reach into Latin America and Asia. Its investments include everything from agricultural land in Brazil to a commodity trading arm in Asia. A lot of what Alea does is under the radar. “We’re very low-profile,” Al Duaij says. “Even the company name that we’re running, the family office, that’s not my family name. But I am proud of it, don’t get me wrong.”Al Duaij, who worked at an economic development fund in Kuwait and later an investment bank there before joining Alea, says one of the biggest differences in making business decisions now is the emotions attached to them. “With a family business, the emotional part comes into every decision that you are taking because the family is behind it,” he says. Al Duaij says the pressure of being from a successful family also makes him more cautious, so he avoids potentially fleeting investment trends such as Bitcoin. “My family gives me the privilege of the legacy of having a brand name. I don’t want to ruin it for stupid stuff,” he says. “It’s not about the money. The money goes and comes. Our brand name is the real money for us.”Many of the wealthiest families in the petroleum-rich Gulf region, who are among Alea’s clients as part of its advisory business, have built up their fortunes through real estate and trading, not oil, as many assume, he says. Oil reserves, he explains, are generally owned by the government. Another Western misperception about Gulf Arabs, Al Duaij says, is that the rich “have plenty of money and no knowledge.” He says anyone who has a business meeting with these families soon finds they’re sophisticated investors who “need a lot of time to get convinced.”How much time? Al Duaij says the New York-style 15-minute power meeting doesn’t cut it: “You have to plan a one-hour meeting—first to chitchat, to talk about football, politics, the economy, and then have coffee. Then you start talking about your story.”Don’t just throw out numbers, because “that’s a turnoff,” he says. “If you give me a story about how we create this deal, that would motivate me to hear more about you.” 

2018-05-02T21:46:40.715Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/your-evening-briefing
The Fed is letting interest rates stay where they are for now, but that doesn't mean they won't climb come summer. Speaking of summer, that's when Elon Musk says he'll be making 5,000 of his Model 3s every week. The Fed didn't raise rates and hinted at a willingness to let inflation exceed 2 percent. Nevertheless, investors are unlikely to back off their expectation of a June rate hike.The Republican tax cut and spending increases are forcing the U.S. to issue an extra $73 billion in government bonds this quarter.Tesla beat back the haters, forecasting it’ll generate cash later this year as production of Musk’s critical, mass-market sedan accelerates.Google is secretly building a social-gaming startup. Arcade will be a social-media investment, because a successful game is also a social network—or so the search engine giant hopes.President Donald Trump is threatening to intervene in a fight over internal Justice Department documents sought by House Republicans, including some related to the Russia criminal probe. More finance jobs are leaving New York as the pricey metropolis forces firms to look for cheaper digs elsewhere, including Nashville, Jacksonville and Salt Lake City.What's Joe Weisenthal thinking? The Bloomberg Markets executive editor isn't so certain fear of Facebook in the online dating space is as warranted as stocks seem to suggest. Go to Honolulu for the beach, stay for amazing restaurants. Honolulu has been lifting its food-and-drink bar ever higher, from elite sushi to smoking cocktails, local breakfasts to no-frills poke, and even a food hall that merits a look. Oh, and it's usually beautiful and warm outside.

2018-05-02T16:00:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-02/s-p-dow-ceo-says-his-firm-decided-against-crypto-indexes-for-now
S&P Dow Jones Indices says it’s decided against introducing cryptocurrency indexes -- for now.With the popularity of bitcoin and other digital currencies, S&P has been receiving requests from customers to build gauges tracking them, Alex Matturri, chief executive officer, said in an interview. But for the time being, at least, the index provider has no plans to offer them.“Not right now,” Matturri said during a visit to Tokyo last month. But “it’s prudent for us to take a wait-and-see approach.”S&P regularly receives requests from clients for various types of indexes, and often turns them down, but its final verdict on crypto gauges will probably take longer."We have a reputation, we’ve been around a lot of years and we’re not going to tarnish our reputation over just creating a new product idea," Matturri said. But the concept of cryptocurrencies is interesting and "clearly there is a demand -- that’s something worthwhile to keep an eye on."One of the key issues for Matturri is the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s attitude toward exchange-traded products based on baskets of cryptocurrencies. In January, the SEC raised a series of investor protection concerns about cryptocurrency mutual and exchange-traded funds, dealing a blow to the investment craze."You don’t want an index that somebody is going to use in a product that either manipulates markets or is easily manipulated," Matturri said. "If it’s meant as a tool for gambling, well, go to Macao or Las Vegas. That’s not what investing is about."At the same time, Matturri acknowledges the potential of the technology behind cryptocurrencies, which he says is keeping him from fully dismissing the idea of crypto indexes."It’s still got a ways to go before it’s kind of in the mainstream, more legitimized," Matturri said. "But it could happen quickly. Technology is much more disruptive today than it ever was."— With assistance by Issei Hazama

2018-05-01T16:11:21.924Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-05-01/money-for-nothing-rains-down-in-airdrops-as-ico-scrutiny-rises
When Michael Terpin peered inside his cryptocurrency wallet recently, he found several new coins -- ones that he didn’t buy.“Every week someone is dropping me a buck or two of something,” the San Juan, Puerto Rico-based investor and organizer of crypto conferences said. So far this year, Terpin estimates that he has received 15 free digital coins in one of his digital accounts that are referred to as wallets.While the vast majority are likely worthless, the hope is that coins distributed to people who own older tokens, answered a survey or registered to receive information turn out to be the next Bitcoin. Known as airdrops, the giveaways are being embraced by startups seeking to broaden ownership and raise the profile of blockchain projects as the universe of more than 1,600 bigger coins and thousands of smaller ones faces increasing regulatory scrutiny.Google Trends data showing consumer searchesSource: Google TrendsSome have proved to be lucrative. Stellar distributed billions of Lumens to Bitcoin holders last year, and each one of those is now worth about 38 cents. OmiseGo had an airdrop in 2017, helping to boost the value of its token. While growing in popularity, the idea isn’t new. In 2010, pioneering developer Gavin Andresen created the Bitcoin Faucet, which gave out five coins to people who’d downloaded Bitcoin software to spur its adoption. They’re worth almost $45,000 today. The practice could be classified as a gusher now. More than 2,500 different coins that aren’t as widely followed have been airdropped in the last 12 months, according to AirdropAlert.com.Startups are resorting to airdrops as the Securities and Exchange Commission raises questions over whether tokens from initial coin offerings, the preferred fundraising method of many companies in the past year, fall under the agency’s scope of regulation. The thinking is that because airdrops don’t raise funds, they could face lower hurdles in compliance. That said, airdrops could be viewed to be similar to free stock giveaways which, the SEC said in 1999, still need to comply with securities laws.Read More: SEC Is Said to Issue Subpoenas in Hunt for Fraudulent ICOsThe bigger risk for free-money-searching consumers is that airdrops are downright scams. Many sites warn users against giving anyone their private keys -- essentially, passwords to their digital wallets -- to receive free coins.Still, many have proven to be effective. The airdrop of eosDac has been credited with boosting the value of EOS lately by double digits. Another startup, esports-focused eBoost, for which Terpin is an investor and a public-relations representative, said it will do an airdrop on May 25 even though it raised enough funding, including through its ICO in 2015."You kind of think of it as a stock split," said Marshall Long, chief gaming director of eBoost. The company’s Telegram group has already grown 20 percent since the announcement of the airdrop, to 1,500 people, he said, while its Discord server -- another chat option -- is up by 4,000 to 40,000 people, he said.Read More: Bitcoin Schism Escalates After Twitter Suspends @Bitcoin AccountBut keep in mind that while splits often make the price of a stock more attractive in the minds of many equity investors, they don’t change the underlying value of the company. In the case of airdrops, you’re often just getting another coin that doesn’t give you any equity in the enterprise."My sense is it’s a fun idea, but probably short-lived for value,” said Dave Balter, partner at Flipside Crypto, which runs investment clubs for cryptocurrencies.For more on cryptocurrencies, check out the Decrypted  podcast:

2018-04-30T21:00:16.841Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-30/redistribution-in-the-robot-economy
This post originally appeared in Money Stuff.I half-joked the other day that “WeWork’s business model is getting SoftBank to buy beer for software workers,” but of course that basic idea—rapidly growing a business by selling its products below cost, subsidized by huge venture-capital investments, in the hopes of one day flipping to profitability once you’ve achieved scale—is pretty standard in Silicon Valley. There are, for instance, many who believe that Uber Technologies Inc.’s product is a below-cost taxi service subsidized by tens of billions of dollars of venture-capital funding. A basic law of finance is that where there is a well-known business model that reliably produces uneconomic decisions—index-fund rebalancing, or let’s say corporate buybacks—then someone will arbitrage it. And here he is:A new type of bargain hunter has found an Eden in the epicenter of the tech boom. The city is full of growth-hungry startups rich with venture capital, which offer consumers free trials and discounts on a scale that dwarfs the grocery-store coupon flier.Such profligacy helped Mr. Yu cover most of the cost of purchasing a used Mini Cooper convertible, provided months of free meals, made him bitcoin rich and landed him on charter jets free.“The entire S.F. economy is V.C. subsidized,” said Mr. Yu, who last year co-founded a blockchain technology startup called Stream. “It’s a historical world of excess.”There is even an automated scalable version with a pleasingly literal name:Elad Ossadon and Noam Szpiro, who work in software engineering, have become referring pros. In 2016, they created a website called VC Fund My Life, which catalogs discounts and freebies. When a user signs up for the startups listed, they get a referral bonus ….Is this … a … good … way to run an economy? You can imagine, if you want—and lots of techno-utopians do—that we are on the cusp of the end of scarcity, a new productivity revolution in which robots will produce everything necessary for human life, freeing us from the need to work. If that is true, or true-ish, or close to true, or possibly true in the very far future, then the big problem will be the distribution of prosperity: If robots produce abundance but eliminate jobs, the concern is that the people—tech founders and venture capitalists, probably—who own the robots will become unimaginably rich and powerful, while the people who don’t will be unemployed and dependent on those founders and VCs for their necessities. Various solutions to this (rather distant and abstract) problem have been proposed, of which two of the most prominent are (1) socialist revolution and (2) a universal basic income; Silicon Valley types seem to like option (2) in part because it might forestall option (1). But that is not the entire choice set! You could have lots of other ways to redistribute tech wealth to everyone. For instance the VCs could own the robots and just give away their services. Why would the VCs do that? Well, to forestall a socialist revolution, would be one answer. Out of the goodness of their hearts and a sense of noblesse oblige, would be another. But it is pleasing to imagine that the VCs might give away their products because they are (1) rapacious growth-hungry capitalists and (2) confused. “Please give me free food so that you can grow your daily active user base,” you’d say to the robot-farm monopoly, and its owners would reply “yes, scale, we must scale, here is your food,” and you’d be pleased to have put one over on capitalism.Obviously the other possibility is that the VCs are completely right about the power of scaling and the functioning of the profitability switch, and that once they give away enough products to become ubiquitous, they can take over the world. Arguably Facebook Inc. is the paradigm here. But if the basic business model of post-post-post-modern capitalism consists of venture capitalists giving people free stuff in order to pursue perpetual user growth, then that model actually seems pretty well suited to address the problems of the future.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks!This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Matt Levine at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:James Greiff  at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-25T11:56:34.781Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-25/ritholtz-s-reads-bitcoin-s-scam-fake-video-and-mosquitoes
My midweek morning train reads:What are you reading?Source: Calculated RiskWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-24T19:08:50.539Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-24/bitcoin-is-one-of-the-few-things-surging-amid-a-sea-of-losses
Amid a sea of red in financial markets, Bitcoin is still flashing green.The biggest cryptocurrency climbed as much as 5.4 percent Tuesday to $9,412, the highest since March 7. Bitcoin has gained 20 percent in the past week and 37 percent in April, on track for its best month since its record-breaking December.Bitcoin is rebounding from its worse start to a year ever, as it slumped more than 50 percent in the first quarter and plunged to as low as $5,922 from almost $20,000 at the end of last year. The cryptocurrency market is gaining as tax-related selling ends and regulatory-related headlines fade, while Wall Street signals increasing interest in the space.Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Monday that it hired Justin Schmidt as head of digital asset markets to help clients gain exposure to cryptocurrencies, and cryptocurrency-focused hedge funds have continued to open even amid the market slump earlier this year.

2018-04-26T17:51:37.679Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-26/pantera-s-morehead-says-bitcoin-is-screaming-buy-bets-on-icon
Bitcoin “is a screaming buy right now,” according to Dan Morehead, chief executive officer of $1 billion cryptocurrency hedge fund Pantera Capital Management LP.In a interview with Bloomberg Television Thursday, Morehead said Pantera has about 10 percent of its investments in Bitcoins, which approached $20,000 apiece late last year before retreating to about half that in the following months. But the fund’s single largest bet is on Icon, which will let different blockchains -- digital ledgers -- talk to one another, he said.Morehead is anticipating that Bitcoin will recover and reach new highs within 12 months. As digital tokens continue to multiply and gain wider use, the $400 billion crypto market could balloon to $4 trillion, he said, and even $40 trillion is “definitely possible.”“It’s the 10-year forecast,” Morehead said. “It’s not going to happen overnight.”Hundreds of hedge funds focused on cryptocurrencies have opened up in the last two years to make money on the highly volatile coins and on blockchain technology -- which can be used for everything from recording cross-border payments to tracking items in a supply chain.Institutional investor interest in tokens is on the rise as well, Morehead said, noting that in its early days, crypto was considered “skanky.” And while today only 10 percent of his hedge fund’s limited partners are institutions, that’s likely to change in the next 18 months, he said. Morehead pointed to last year’s listing of crypto futures as well as Wall Street’s growing interest in clearing crypto trades.“Anything that’s a $400 billion asset will not be ignored for long,” he said.

2018-04-30T21:13:42.641Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-30/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jgmqr2cv
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTrade talks between China and the U.S. take center stage, yet it’s what won’t be discussed that may matter more. And the dollar’s rally will be put to the test amid a busy week of top tier U.S. data and a Fed interest-rate decision. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.China wil refuse to discuss two of U.S. President Donald Trump’s toughest trade demands when American negotiators arrive in Beijing this week, the New York Times reported. The off the table topics include: a mandatory cut of $100 billion in the U.S.-China annual trade deficit, and curbs on Beijing’s plan to support the country’s industrial upgrade into advanced technologies. Meanwhile, Trump still hasn’t decided whether to extend allied nations relief from U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs, even though temporary exemptions are set to expire today.The dollar strengthened Monday, cementing its best month since November 2016. Bond giant Pimco sees further gains in store for the U.S. currency as a currency cold war reignites, while HSBC said Monday that the dollar bull run is just getting started. The greenback’s rally will be put to the test this week, with a mix of top-tier data and an FOMC decision expected. U.S. stocks sagged Monday, led lower by pharmaceutical and technology shares. Oil jumped after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyau came out with accusations against Iran.Netanyahu said Israel has half a ton of Iranian documents that prove Tehran had a secret program to build nuclear bombs. “Iran lied about never having a nuclear weapons program,” Netanyahu said in a press conference. “After signing the nuclear deal in 2015 Iran intensified its efforts to hide its nuclear files,” he said. After the speech, Trump hinted that he plans to withdraw from the Iran nuclear accord but that he may be willing to negotiate a new agreement with the Islamic Republic.Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission is consulting brokers about risks stemming from a rapid run up in margin lending. Outstanding margin loans hit HK$206 billion ($26.3 billion) at the end of 2017, a nine-fold increase since 2006, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Julia Leung told reporters on Monday. The regulator is worried such lending poses a risk given that many of the firms involved are illiquid and it may take a while for brokers to recover their money in case of a liquidation, Leung said.It’s likely to be a slow day in Asia, with markets in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and others closed for Labor Day. But there will be action in Australia, where RBA policy makers are expected to hold record-low interest rates for the 20th straight meeting. Tokyo traders will return, giving the Nikkei the chance to catch up on the rally that broke out across the region Monday. In the U.S. Tuesday, Apple earnings will be the highlight. Results are expected to confirm investors’ fears that the iPhone X didn’t live up to the hype, and they’ll be looking for a strategy on what’s next for the company’s most-important product.This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds

2018-04-30T11:00:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-30/can-blockchain-fix-the-opioid-epidemic-intel-wants-to-find-out
Digital currencies have been accused of worsening the opioid crisis because they make it easier to buy and sell drugs anonymously.Now Intel Corp. and the pharmaceutical industry are planning to fight fire with fire. The chipmaker, working with health companies, aims to use so-called blockchain technology -- similar to the one that underpins the digital currency Bitcoin -- to better trace drugs and potentially stem the epidemic.The idea is to pinpoint where drugs leak out of the supply chain. Blockchain also could help flag “double doctoring,” where an addicted patient takes out more than one prescription from multiple physicians.“It will vastly reduce the opioid epidemic,” said David Houlding, director of health-care privacy and security at Intel Health and Life Sciences. “I would not say this will eliminate the opioid problem, but this will help.”The approach is being tested this spring, when Johnson & Johnson, McKesson Corp. and other companies enter simulated data into new digital ledgers. The experiment will see how easy it is to track pills as they travel from the manufacturer all the way to a patient’s home.Their tests could progress to a live pilot project and possibly a limited deployment by year-end, said Intel’s Houlding, whose company is providing some of the technology.The ultimate goal, he said, is for all drug-related companies and their suppliers worldwide to be on blockchain, an online ledger that can’t be erased. Then government agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration could potentially plug into the blockchain and provide oversight, he said.The opioid crisis has been driven by booming prescriptions sold to pharmacies, hospitals and doctors’ offices. They nearly quadrupled in the first decade of 2000s, despite no signs that Americans were reporting more pain. One study showed that every year more than 100 million pills prescribed just for tooth extractions may go unused and unaccounted for.Opioids include the illegal drug heroin, prescription painkillers like OxyContin, and street versions mimicking their effects such as fentanyl. Deaths from overdoses have been steadily rising for 16 years. Roughly 115 Americans die on average each day from an overdose.The severity of the epidemic has attracted a broad swath of businesses and organizations, including technology companies.Blockchain could eventually help track a drug all the way to the point when it’s ingested by a patient, while using the encrypted nature of the technology to safeguard privacy.The startup ISolve is working on a system called BlockRx that would connect everyone from drug companies to medical-device makers via blockchain.“We’d be able to say, ‘This patient took this medicine at that time,’” said Darryl Glover, chief clinical officer at iSolve.Until now, the job of tracking prescriptions has mostly fallen to state-level drug-monitoring programs. Their databases can help identify problems, such as “pill mills” that overprescribe painkillers or patients who “doctor shop” for extra prescriptions.One big problem is that patients can travel across state lines to get new prescriptions.To address that, Appriss Inc. makes software that sifts through prescription records from 45 state governments to detect potential opioid abusers. Still, such systems aren’t fail-safe: Excess dosages prescribed to patients can get diverted into the hands of children, friends and neighbors. Doctors may not check patient histories before prescribing, and records in the databases can potentially be altered.That’s not so with blockchain, whose entries can’t be changed.“The industry could most certainly benefit from using an immutable database,” said Lucas Nuzzi, a senior analyst at Digital Asset Research.The effort could include using sensors and scanners to ensure that information is entered accurately. After a pharmacy issues a drug and scans it, the record will immediately appear on the blockchain. Each bottle -- and even each pill -- would be traceable all the way through the supply chain. And any escapees could be investigated.“The other thing the blockchain is really good at is interconnecting systems that don’t readily speak to each other,” Glover said. Multiple states, and companies and pharmacies would be on the same system.The FDA is interested in the idea -- even if it’s “early in the process,” said spokeswoman Tara Rabin. The technology also could be used in the exchange of medical records, she said.“Because electronic medical records contain information on prescription refill behavior, use of blockchain technology may add to the FDA’s understanding of how prescription opioids are being abused and spread illicitly into our communities,” Rabin said in an email.Intel is working on fighting the opioid crisis as part of a broader industry effort coordinated by the Center for Supply Chain Studies. Its aim is to help the pharmaceutical industry comply with the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, which requires companies to better track medicines.The key to the project’s success will be getting as many companies as possible to use the same system. It also will depend on everyone entering the drug data correctly, which is a challenge. Since many opioids come from China, those may continue to fall through the cracks.“Ultimately, it needs to go worldwide,” Intel’s Houlding said.— With assistance by Drew Armstrong, and Ian King

2018-05-01T09:00:19.471Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-05-01/white-male-vcs-tend-to-fund-white-male-entrepreneurs-could-robots-do-better
Ashley Carroll has a go-to story that epitomizes how grim things are for female entrepreneurs trying to raise money in Silicon Valley. Earlier this year, Carroll, a partner at the $2.5 billion venture firm Social Capital, was coaching a female startup founder ahead of a meeting with a potential investor. Let’s call the founder Jane Disruptsky and the investor John Ventureman. The pitch session seemed to go well, but afterward, while Disruptsky was waiting to hear whether the fund would back her, Carroll received a screenshot of a private text-message conversation someone else had had with Ventureman.Ventureman began by praising Disruptsky’s startup on its merits. The gist, Carroll recalls, was: “Great business. I love everything.” Still, he was passing on the deal. The rest of the text chain read like an assessment of a blind date: “She didn’t seem warm,” for example, or, “She was just all about the business.”Carroll laughs as she recalls the thread, without seeming particularly amused. “I was just like, ‘Says no one about a male entrepreneur, ever.’ ”Early-stage tech companies raise money through a stubbornly analog process—an irony for an industry based on the conviction that computers will upend every aspect of human existence. Founders vie for personal introductions to venture capitalists, who in turn make decisions based on nebulous criteria. It’s widely understood that the decisions rely heavily on gut instinct; indeed, VCs tout their intuition when they’re out raising money from investors for their funds.In a system like this, the people who cash the checks tend to look a lot like the people who write them. According to the National Venture Capital Association, 89 percent of partners at venture firms are male. And in 2017, data compiled by PitchBook Data Inc. showed that the industry poured $68.2 billion into companies founded by men, compared with just $1.9 billion for startups with solely female founders. Specific statistics on ethnic background are harder to come by, but the overwhelming majority of venture partners are white, and there’s little disagreement that the pool of entrepreneurs they fund isn’t very diverse, either. One obvious way to offset the clubbiness endemic to Silicon Valley’s investor class would be to replace the “guts” of white men with those of women and people of color. But another option—one that fascinates Carroll—is to eliminate gut instinct altogether.Carroll, 35, isn’t quite an outsider. She has three degrees from Stanford and a career that includes stints at Amazon.com Inc. and two unicorn-tier startups. She joined Social Capital’s Palo Alto office in 2015, and last year she began building an automated system that would allow the fund to invest in startups that its partners had never met. The companies would upload data about themselves; if the algorithms liked what they saw, the venture fund would back them. The process, in theory, would keep bias from entering the equation. Within the firm, the system is known as Capital as a Service, or CaaS for short.Similar tactics have brought promising results in other competitive fields. The most famous example comes from the 1970s, when five major orchestras began requiring musicians to stand behind a screen while auditioning. According to a study by researchers at Harvard, the proportion of women performing in those orchestras increased more than threefold from 1970 to 1993. Technologists have lauded automated decision-making as a way to further reduce human fallacy. But the optimism around supposedly objective algorithms has been challenged in recent years by evidence that some automated systems amplify bias because they’re trained on data reflecting historical inequities.Social Capital kicked off a trial of Carroll’s model last year with a referral program of sorts—the fund asked other venture capital firms to direct promising early-stage companies to apply through the system. Most of the hopefuls came from outside the standard VC stomping grounds of the Bay Area and New York, and many were based overseas. The fund has since assessed 5,000 startups and invested in 60. Eighteen of the companies are run by women, and about 80 percent have nonwhite founders. The checks Social Capital is writing are small by its standards, from $50,000 to $250,000. But the firm plans to throw open the doors to anyone with a company and a few spreadsheets of operational data by the spring of 2019. Its official goal is to make 1,000 investments in 2018 and 10,000 next year. Chamath Palihapitiya, Social Capital’s chief executive, admits those levels are unattainable—that many investments would quickly add up to billions of dollars—and says they’re more of a message to the people building CaaS that the firm is serious. “It forces them to build something that can be mission-grade,” he says. “If I said, ‘Fund 10 companies,’ they could manually jury-rig some system. When I say 10,000, you can’t.”Companies upload their data. Algorithms spit out a funding verdict. In theory, no bias is involvedPalihapitiya has a penchant for dramatic claims—some of which pan out. The snappily dressed former Facebook Inc. executive, who co-founded Social Capital in 2011, made early bets on Bitcoin, started a hedge fund, and raised $600 million to help startups go public through an unconventional vehicle known as a SPAC, or special purpose acquisition company. (The startups have yet to be chosen.)Not everyone has wanted to come along on Palihapitiya’s adventures. His two co-founders, Mamoon Hamid and Ted Maidenberg, left the firm last year. But to Palihapitiya, the more he breaks the mold, the better. He describes the job of a venture capitalist with some disdain. “This isn’t meant to be pejorative, but you’re a classic middleman,” he says. In Palihapitiya’s view, the fate of middlemen is to reap an enormous profit until the market inevitably finds a way around them. “Venture capital,” he says, “will be no different.”There’s an economic logic behind CaaS. Evaluating and backing startups is a labor-intensive process, significantly limiting the number of deals a firm can do. By using software to assess tens of thousands of companies annually, a firm can do each individual deal more cheaply. This makes modest successes worth its time, getting the firm around the need to bet only on companies that could be worth billions. It also eliminates the personal blind spots of its partners.Palihapitiya doesn’t mind positioning himself as enlightened—the name of his firm is Social Capital, after all. But he insists he’s making a profit-maximizing move here. When asked how CaaS might help underrepresented groups, he winces, downplaying diversity as simply a “positive byproduct.” He adds, “Look, at the end of the day, our job is to get the most capable people to the starting line. Let’s say [that with] CaaS, it turned out it was all white dudes who got funded. That’d be OK, too.”The initiative dovetails with work Palihapitiya did at Facebook, where he ran the growth team during a period of eye-popping expansion. His outfit was responsible for an approach that’s now seen as a core aspect of Facebook’s culture: shunning intuitive decision-making in favor of quantitative measurement, then relentlessly choosing whatever option drives the most engagement. Several of Palihapitiya’s Facebook colleagues have taken on key roles at Social Capital.From the start, the firm sought to mathematically isolate the objective factors responsible for a startup’s success. Investors in publicly traded companies do this by poring over financial statements. But such data are often not available for startups, and when they are, they can be useless. At the stage when a company is seeking venture capital, it’s often intentionally bleeding money to gain a market foothold. Recognizing this, the Facebook veterans began building models that primarily compared how startups attract and retain users.In 2015 one of Social Capital’s partners visited the offices of SurveyMonkey Inc., the online poll service, and learned that one of its former employees had designed a series of impressively elegant experiments to determine product pricing in different countries. The ex-employee was Carroll, and Social Capital quickly recruited her. As a numbers-first type, she clicked with the firm’s data scientists. Even Carroll’s primary personal activity, distance running, is basically an exercise in obsessive performance measurement and squeezing out tiny improvements in efficiency. At her peak, Carroll ran the marathon in under 2 hours and 45 minutes, which was fast enough to qualify her for the 2011 Olympic Trials. (She finished in the middle of the pack.)Carroll became a partner at Social Capital in 2015 and settled into the standard investor’s life: visiting founders, sitting on a handful of boards, leading three investments. One way she evaluated companies was a tool Social Capital’s analysts had built called the Magic 8-Ball. The model examined common metrics such as user growth and engagement, as well as more bespoke things like “quality of revenue” by putting more weight on money from loyal customers. Carroll thought the firm wasn’t making the most of the Magic 8-Ball’s power, as it was implementing the tool relatively late in a process vulnerable to traditional biases. “It was used as validation,” she says. “One of us investors would get an intro, and then go have coffee, and then judge them ourselves, and then have another partner meet them, and then after all those steps do the Magic 8-Ball thing.”Last spring, Carroll spent two weekends throwing together a prototype that linked the Magic 8-Ball to a single online form that companies could fill out on their own. It was a kludgy program involving two spreadsheet applications, a Google bot, and a service called If This, Then That that creates rudimentary scripts. “It was this totally duct-taped-together product I was pretty ashamed of,” Carroll says. Still, she sent the link to a handful of investors Social Capital had worked with, asking them to share it with companies that might be interested in having their businesses evaluated by software rather than people. She was immediately deluged with applications.“Our job is to get the most capable people to the starting line”It would be an exaggeration to say CaaS is making purely automated investments. Entrepreneurs apply by going to Social Capital’s website, where they’re greeted by the motto “Raise capital based on the merits of your business, not your network.” A form asks them to choose their business model from a drop-down menu. Then they must disclose information such as how much they spend to acquire users, each customer’s lifetime value, and how much cash they have on hand. Finally, they upload spreadsheets detailing their revenue and engagement metrics.About half the time, companies get through the process unassisted, and Carroll receives an automated email analyzing their promise. The rest of the time, companies will get in touch to argue that they don’t fit neatly into the provided categories or that their data is formatted incorrectly. Then personal attention is required. In cases where the algorithm recommends funding, Social Capital still has humans do things such as legal vetting and other back-office tasks.Social Capital has three people working full time to build out CaaS. About a half dozen employees show up at a recent progress meeting in the glass cube that serves as the main conference room in the firm’s Palo Alto office. Someone rolls up a whiteboard to take notes. One employee begins a discussion on a seemingly metaphysical question: “When does a company truly exist?” (Knowing this helps to determine when to apply growth models.) Then the group puzzles over a company that raised a $4 million round from a rival firm shortly after the CaaS system had determined it was unfit for investment.The idea of automated seed-stage investing isn’t entirely new. Many firms claim to use data-centric analysis, and a handful have adopted strategies based on making lots of small investments without face-to-face meetings. Dave Lambert, who for the last eight years has run Right Side Capital Management LLC, a small San Francisco-based fund, uses a largely automated system to review thousands of companies annually. He’s written about 2,000 checks in amounts up to $100,000. Unlike Social Capital, Lambert doesn’t claim to gain an edge through superior algorithms. “The hardest part is the psychology,” he says. “It’s so easy to make exceptions.”Neither Palihapitiya nor Carroll aspires to cut humans completely out of the loop. Palihapitiya sees his firm’s overall operations as akin to those of a bank, which can process a credit card application with software but needs people to underwrite million-dollar mortgages. By handing out thousands and thousands of credit cards and small loans, these companies have been able to improve their own risk models. As they’re more confident about who’s likely to be good for the money, banks and credit card networks can make automated decisions on higher and higher dollar amounts. Palihapitiya thinks the same thing will happen at Social Capital. He says its computers could one day be writing multimillion-dollar checks. “We’re Diners Club in the 1950s,” he says, referring to the original credit card network, “and aspiring to be American Express in 2018.”In November, Palihapitiya caused a stir when he told the audience at a Stanford Graduate School of Business event that he felt “tremendous guilt” about his time at Facebook. “The short-term, dopamine-driven feedback loops that we have created are destroying how society works,” he said.Repentance aside, Palihapitiya’s experience at Facebook clearly continues to influence Social Capital. He marvels that the dominant global technology platforms all arrived at their current positions by gathering enormous amounts of data and using it to predict people’s behavior. Palihapitiya figures that if it works for social network users and online shoppers, it should work for startups, too.Social Capital’s staff acknowledges that Facebook’s comeuppance is a cautionary tale about unintended consequences. “Certainly putting an application form out in the wild that says, ‘Enter data, get money!’ has all sorts of negative possibilities,” says Jonathan Hsu, Social Capital’s head of quantitative investing.Among those possibilities is that automated investment decisions could actually aggravate the inequities of today’s venture capital system. Automated tools developed for criminal sentencing and policing, for instance, have given old wrongs new life by using flawed data to create their models, resulting in a propensity to overstate the dangerousness of black people. “There’s clearly a growing awareness of these problems in the technical community,” says Solon Barocas, an assistant professor at Cornell who studies ethical and policy issues related to artificial intelligence.In all automated systems, the challenge in dealing with bias is that it’s hopelessly entangled with other factors. At Social Capital, that problem has manifested primarily in an internal debate over whether to try to model not only which businesses will succeed but which entrepreneurs will. Ray Ko, a partner who leads the firm’s tech development, is intrigued by the idea of pulling in information about founders that could serve as proxies for technical expertise, such as their histories in coding communities like GitHub Inc. and Stack Overflow, and seeing if that correlates with success.The CaaS form already asks applicants for some personal information, such as LinkedIn profiles and educational background. Carroll is resistant to the idea of using such data to glean insights about businesses. Because well-educated white men have the easiest time raising money today, any model using demographics to predict success would favor them—the opposite of her intention. Still, Social Capital is experimenting with building personalized models anyway, though it hasn’t implemented any yet. Despite its high-minded name, the fund’s overriding objective is to achieve the biggest return on its portfolio companies. A more diverse set of CEOs atop those startups would be ideal. But for now—to use Palihapitiya’s words—they’re just a positive byproduct. 

2018-04-30T11:00:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-30/sofi-s-former-ceo-harnesses-the-blockchain-for-home-loan-startup
Mike Cagney, who built SoFi into America’s biggest student loan refinancer before quitting amid allegations of sexual harassment at the fintech firm, is preparing for his second act: a startup offering home-equity loans.Cagney has raised $50 million for San Francisco-based Figure, which plans to use the blockchain to help expedite loan approvals in minutes rather than days, according to people familiar with the matter. Two global banks have agreed to finance loans and several firms have agreed to purchase them, say the people, who requested anonymity to discuss a private matter.Mike CagneyRibbit Capital and DCM Ventures led the investment round with the participation of other investors including Peter Thiel’s Mithril Capital Management, the people say. DCM Ventures backed Social Finance Inc., Cagney’s previous company.Investors are betting Figure has chosen an auspicious moment to enter the home-equity financing business. While banks pulled back on such loans after the financial crisis, they’re becoming popular again thanks to rising home prices that give owners more equity to borrow against. Figure plans to start lending in the third quarter.Figure and Cagney confirmed the financing details but declined to comment further.Cagney, 47, hasn’t said much about his new venture but is known for outsize ambitions. At SoFi, he dreamed of creating a “Wells Fargo of the future” that would target millennials with products ranging from insurance and mortgages to wealth management. That was always a long shot given all the competition. In any event, he stepped down after allegations that some managers sexually harassed employees and that he himself engaged in at least one inappropriate relationship with a female employee, which he has denied.At SoFi, Cagney targeted so-called HENRYs -- high earners, not rich yet. With Figure, he’s chasing a demo that he’s calling CLAREs -- cash light and rich in equity, the people say. CLAREs tend to be older Americans with significant equity in their homes, while many SoFi customers are first-time home buyers. Figure plans to offer three- to 10-year home equity loans and a buy-lease-back product -- purchasing retirees’ homes then leasing them back.Figure currently has about 56 employees, including a team of engineers in Montana. The startup has also hired the former Chief Risk Officer of LendingHome, Cynthia Chen, and former PeerStreet Chief Legal Counsel, Sara Priola.The startup is basing its product on blockchain as it tries to build a faster, cheaper and more secure way to create and package financial assets. Blockchain became known for providing an immutable, public ledger that tracks ownership of the virtual currency bitcoin. The technology is now being repurposed to handle all sorts of assets and transactions, even logging contract terms and archiving data, such as medical records.Figure’s goal is to build a system that facilitates financing, but ultimately would act as a market where people can buy and sell credit. Using blockchain at various steps would cut out a slew of middlemen typically involved in creating and packaging loans for sale -- such as auditors, lawyers, underwriters, custodians and trustees. Figure also plans to use its blockchain technology to track property ownership, reducing or eliminating the cost of title insurance.Many blockchain platforms feature tokens that serve as an in-house currency for the ledger. Figure is creating a finite number of tokens, named “hash,” that would change hands at various points of the process -- for example, to cover the cost of accepting a loan payment. Figure and firms providing support to the blockchain would collect small amounts as a reward. Investors also may use it for buying and selling assets in the market.Initially, Figure will distribute hash to participants. But it also plans to buy and sell it as a market maker, ensuring hash can be exchanged for cash in real time. The company intends to work closely with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority -- the nation’s main brokerage regulator -- about serving as a broker-dealer for the tokens, according to the people. It’s also considering a public sale of hash to help encourage its adoption, the people say.Figure is entering a crowded market where established companies and startups alike are trying to make it easier for Americans to unlock equity in their homes. Incumbents include Unison Home Ownership Investors and newcomers like Point Digital Finance. Banks are also tinkering with blockchain. Credit Suisse Group AG, U.S. Bancorp, Wells Fargo & Co. and Western Asset Management Co. have experimented with using the technology to make it easier and less costly to track home mortgages packaged into securities.Cagney, who worked at Wells Fargo for several years, understands the industry and has a reputation for innovating and building companies. While it’s true SoFi hasn’t yet become the “bank of the future” he promised, its core student-loan refinancing business is doing well and the company has started moving into other financial services. The question for Figure’s backers is whether Cagney has learned from his experience at SoFi, where he presided over a toxic culture.

2018-04-23T18:41:02.188Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-23/bitcoin-cash-burning-claim-adds-fire-to-pr-battle-with-bitcoin
Bitcoin Cash is the hottest cryptocurrency around right now for more reasons than you may imagine.The offshoot of the biggest digital token has surged about 25 percent since Friday, in part because Antpool, one of the largest mining groups, is “burning” a portion of the coins it receives in exchange for solving the complete mathematical puzzles that serve as the backbone of the network, potentially reducing supply and driving up the value.The maneuver is the latest salvo in an escalating battle between backers of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash, which was spun off last year. Through a war of words playing out on Twitter and Facebook, some of the largest holders of both cryptocurrencies are attempting to influence the coins’ prices after seeing significant losses since last year."Antpool has burned $12 worth” of Bitcoin Cash a day, said Kyle Samani, managing partner at the Austin, Texas-based crypto hedge fund Multicoin Capital, in an email. "This was purely a PR game so they could say ‘reducing supply.”’The coin's price jumps on Antpool TweetSource: CoinMarketCap.comAntpool, whose users’ computers confirm 8.2 percent of all Bitcoin Cash transactions, announced April 20 on Twitter and Facebook that it will voluntarily "burn" 12 percent of the coins it receives. The mining outfit is sending a portion of the fees it receives "to a black hole address.”Bitcoin Cash has the advantage of lower transaction fees and faster transaction times. The more widely used Bitcoin has been testing a new technology, called Lightning Network, that, if deployed at scale, could significantly cut Bitcoin Cash’s advantage, Lucas Nuzzi, a senior analyst at Digital Asset Research, said in an email."Now, projects like Bitcoin Cash are struggling to remain relevant, which is hard when very few users are using the network," Nuzzi said. "Miners have to liquidate their holdings regularly to pay for their expenses. The move from Antpool is intended to slow down further price depreciation, by attempting to increase the perception of scarcity. Whether the move will be successful remains to be seen."The number of Bitcoin Cash transactions per day has roughly doubled since August, when the coin made its debut, according to BitInfoCharts.com. The number of daily Bitcoin transactions is actually down from last August’s levels.Other Bitcoin Cash adherents such as investor Roger Ver, who was widely known as Bitcoin Jesus, have also been actively promoting the coin on Twitter. Ver often calls Bitcoin Cash the better Bitcoin, where "the old, pro-freedom, economically and philosophically literate radicals have been replaced by a bureaucracy of charlatans who destroyed Bitcoin so they could cling to their power."Bitcoin has long been plagued by disagreements between its software developers and miners on how to improve the underlying network, and that rift had ultimately spawned Bitcoin Cash. The @Bitcoin Twitter account was recently suspended, then reinstated. The account fired back at Bitcoin Cash supporters saying that they are "trying to steal the Bitcoin brand."In practical terms, the actual impact of the Antpool announcement is unclear. Cryptocurrencies’ quantity can change for a variety of reasons: The Ethereum community, for example, has recently began considering capping its Ether coin supply, which is currently unlimited. Ripple destroys the small amount of its coin, XRP, used to pay for transactions, as "this makes XRP more scarce and benefits all holders of XRP by making XRP more valuable."Whether the burning really makes a cryptocurrency more valuable is unclear."Cryptocurrencies have a bewildering variety of mechanisms for determining quantity -- of course, ever since we left the gold standard, traditional currencies are even more bewildering," Aaron Brown, a business author who writes for Bloomberg Prophets, said in an email. "Who knows what would happen if Jeff Bezos converted all his wealth to $100 bills and burned them? So it will be an interesting experiment."

2018-04-23T12:37:54.615Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-23/bitcoin-breaches-9-000-for-the-first-time-in-a-month
Bitcoin breached $9,000 for the first time in a month Monday and that’s emboldening advocates of the largest cryptocurrency."The crypto space is still in its infancy,” said John Spallanzani, a portfolio manager at Miller Value Partners in Baltimore. “The weak will be exposed and the strong will prosper."Bitcoin has rallied about 30 percent so far this month, putting it on pace for its best April since 2013. That’s helping to soften the blow from the more than 50 percent first-quarter loss that followed last year’s 1,400 percent gain.     Traders have cited a range of reasons for the recent two-week rally, from an end of selling by investors needing to raise cash for taxes to optimism that U.S. regulators will work to shape guidelines that will allow digital currencies to flourish.The road ahead may be a bit more rocky, said Joe Van Hecke, managing partner at Chicago-based Grace Hall Trading LLC. There’s a good chance the price will be either around the $7,000 or $11,000 level in the next 30 days, he said."We’ve just come through this pretty grim period with Bitcoin taking a pretty massive hit from potential government regulation, Chinese New Year and tax day in the U.S.," Van Hecke said. "We’ve got a really bullish trend here. As long as the news on Bitcoin stays relatively quiet, we can have a nice move up past $10,000."

2018-04-26T15:22:34.952Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-26/crypto-world-gains-even-more-options-five-new-fundstrat-indexes
In a cryptocurrency universe of more than 1,500 tokens, Fundstrat Global Advisors LLC has launched five additional price indexes to give investors even more ways to customize.The five gauges -- based on the sectors Commodities, Platforms, Privacy, Exchanges and Stablecoins -- include 75 percent of today’s crypto market cap. Commodity tokens comprise the largest chunk, at 47 percent, but that’s because the index components are Bitcoin, Bitcoin cash, Litecoin, Monero and Zcash.Prospective investors may want to look at the makeup of the indexes before jumping in, as they aren’t necessarily getting so much diversification. The Privacy index, for instance, has four components. The Stablecoin gauge has just two, with a 99 percent weight to Tether and 1 percent to DAI.Fundstrat remains optimistic on the long-term success of Bitcoin, the largest and most widely held of the cryptocurrencies.“Commodity tokens, in our view, are on-ramps for institutional inflows, given the expanding options for access (futures, etc.)," strategists including Thomas Lee, Robert Sluymer and Sam Doctor wrote in a note Thursday. "And commodity tokens face less regulatory risk relative to other types of tokens at the moment."Fundstrat cites regulatory risks excessively priced into platform tokens as the primary rationale behind creating the new benchmarks. Previously, the firm said it mainly chose indexes based on size. With the crypto marketplace continuously growing, Fundstrat said it will be creating additional sector gauges as "other thematic areas mature or become more evident."QuickTake Q&A: Why Crypto Traders Are So Worried About Tether

2018-04-25T10:30:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/winklevoss-twins-hire-nasdaq-to-keep-cheaters-off-crypto-market
The Winklevoss twins brought in the pros to keep cheaters off their cryptocurrency exchange.Their company, Gemini Trust Co., hired Nasdaq Inc. to conduct market surveillance for Bitcoin and Ether trading as well as the auction that helps price Cboe Global Markets Inc.’s Bitcoin futures, according to a statement Wednesday. It’s the first partnership between a well-known exchange like Nasdaq and a digital-asset market to help safeguard the nascent $433 billion cryptocurrency sector.Cameron and Tyler WinklevossThe deal could reassure investors of the reliability of New York-based Gemini, operator of one of the largest U.S.-based cryptocurrency exchanges. Practices like spoofing -- a form of cheating that regulators have spent years stamping out in futures and equities markets -- have fueled concerns about whether crypto trading is adequately monitored.Nasdaq’s surveillance “is tried and true technology that’s used by some of the largest exchanges in the world, so it’s an obvious fit,” Cameron Winklevoss said in a telephone interview. “We love rules-based markets when the playing field is clear and straightforward and there’s transparency.”One of Gemini’s rivals said earlier this week that crypto traders don’t care about whether markets are abused. San Francisco-based Kraken said on its blog that “being protected from market manipulation” doesn’t matter to most crypto traders. Last week, Kraken rebuffed an attempt by the New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman to gather information about how digital asset exchanges operate. Trading on Kraken helps value CME’s Bitcoin futures contracts.Read more: Winklevoss twins have a plan to police cryptocurrency tradingCameron and his brother, Tyler Winklevoss, founded Gemini in 2015. Cameron said that Gemini for now is satisfied with its own matching engine technology -- the software that pairs buyers and sellers -- another service Nasdaq provides to markets around the world.“We’ll always be looking at other options but we have no immediate plans” to outsource that core trading function, he said.Cameron Winklevoss said that policing markets should be required as the industry matures. “We don’t want to be the only player with a market-surveillance program,” he said.Famous for running its namesake stock exchange, Nasdaq has for years sought to also capitalize on its expertise in surveillance and trading technology. Nasdaq said its Smarts surveillance system “automates the detection, investigation and analysis of potentially abusive or disorderly trading,” and is used by more than 45 markets and 17 regulators.Nasdaq provides surveillance, trading and clearing services to other cryptocurrency exchanges besides Gemini, Chief Executive Officer Adena Friedman said in an interview Wednesday, declining to identify them. As for Gemini, “the fact that they’re choosing to work with us is a testament to them and the quality of what we provide,” she said.

2018-04-27T11:00:13.301Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-27/blockchains-warrant-skepticism-but-keep-an-open-mind
Many people, when they hear the word “blockchain,” think of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. Yet there is another feature of the blockchain afoot, one which promises to bring a new and radical decentralization to technology, including social media. Or as it was reported on Twitter: “Silicon Valley used to be a counterculture. It’s not anymore. It is the establishment. The crypto community is the new counterculture.”Let’s work through one scenario to see what might be at stake.The basic idea of a blockchain, in its purest form, is to set up a record-keeper and adjudicator that does not rely on any specific third party or outside institution. The details are complex, and I will put aside the cryptographic elements of the mechanism, but imagine paying caretakers who update or validate a public ledger for recording who owns what. In theory, the caretakers could coordinate and organize a majority vote to overturn all the records and claim the funds for themselves, but in practice they will find it easier to agree on the truth. To date blockchains have proved highly reliable. Bitcoins and many other cryptocurrencies are means of payment, programmed into the original software, to reward institutions that keep the blockchain ledger in good working order.To drive the point home, a blockchain is actually a form of governance and that is what makes it such a potentially radical idea. We’ve had families, and businesses, and governments, all as methods for making decisions.  Now we have blockchains. That could be huge, but is it going to take off? Other than using blockchains to organize cryptocurrencies, imagine using them to record and decide who can store information about you. The blockchain is thus a potential substitute for some functions of Facebook, a corporation. Or imagine using the blockchain to allocate rights to your attention in cyberspace, who can send you ads, and who can send you an actionable email or induce you to complete a task, the latter an idea from Balaji Srinivasan of Coinbase. No, you don’t have to sit down and personally bid on all of these decisions, but your AI bots can use micropayments and trade with other AI bots, based on your initial instructions. This new method of governance holds out the promise of using market mechanisms to order your life online, rather than relying on monopolies to do it for you.Or, say, virtual reality worlds come to pass, where people plug in to relax, to take an exciting one-hour trip to Paris from their sofa, or to have cybersex. The property rights in those worlds might be allocated by blockchains and cryptocurrencies, again assisted by AI.  That would create a parallel economy and indeed parallel legal systems, and those might spring up more rapidly than current administrative law will handle those new situations. In these new economies and legal systems that spring from blockchains, competition and rapid experimentation would be the norm.Now here’s the catch, sad for some of you: I don’t actually think this is going to happen. We haven’t figured out a way to process enough cryptocurrency transactions smoothly at a rapid clip, and running a blockchain can involve high energy costs and thus pollution (“mining”). Blockchains do not always interact seamlessly with already existing regulations and laws, which are not about to vanish. Or perhaps these new systems will be prone to monopolies of other kinds. Furthermore, blockchains have been around for only about 10 years, and they may have vulnerabilities we don’t understand yet. On some days, I’m happy if my Skype calls aren’t dropped, and so I wonder just how rapidly we can add on this additional complexity.That all said, I have more important news yet: I am not sure this cannot happen. In fact, I give it at least a 5 percent chance of taking place in some form, even if not exactly as I have outlined. At public conferences, I typically play the role of blockchain skeptic, because that is indeed my view, and also I am put off by a lot of the uncritical blockchain boosterism and maybe even hucksterism out there. But I also know that only a few years ago, I had absolutely no clue that such scenarios were possible at all, even as imagined science fiction. So should I be so quick today to dismiss improvements in blockchains, and other possible forthcoming revolutions, just because I cannot personally figure out all the details of how they might work? I am humbled by the realization that my own profession of economics promotes the idea of “mechanism design,” yet we have had virtually nothing to do with the rise of the blockchain concept, the most important advance in mechanism design in some while.Will the next generation of tech be done by legal systems and corporations or by blockchains? Or some combination of those? That’s the new intellectual battlefield, and the fact that skepticism is more plausible than enthusiasm should not put it out of your mind.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Tyler Cowen at tcowen2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Katy Roberts  at kroberts29@bloomberg.net

2018-04-26T19:52:42.166Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-26/u-k-fintech-revolut-worth-1-7-billion-after-new-funding-round
In one of the biggest fundraising rounds for a European fintech this year, Revolut Ltd., a U.K. startup that provides digital banking, received $250 million.The Series C funding, led by Hong Kong-based DST Global and joined by longtime backers such as Index Ventures and Ribbit Capital, values the three-year-old company at $1.7 billion, Revolut said in a statement Thursday.Revolut is one of a crop of financial technology firms challenging traditional banks with digital-account services that enable customers to make and accept payments, and buy and exchange cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.The company said it plans to use its new capital to expand in North America, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia this year. The startup, which is applying for a European banking license, aims to increase its customer base from two million to 100 million by 2023.

2018-04-21T15:28:22.064Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-21/ritholtz-s-reads-seeing-red-in-dyes-bitcoin-and-demographics
The weekend is here! Pour yourself a mug of Komodo Dragon coffee, grab a seat on the hammock, and get ready for our longer-form weekend reads:Be sure to check out our Masters in Business interview this weekend with Joel Greenblatt of Gotham Asset Management. Greenblatt previously ran Gotham Capital, which generated returns of 50 percent per year (before fees) for 10 years before he returned capital back to investors. He is the author of numerous books, most recently, “The Big Secret for the Small Investor: A New Route to Long-Term Investment.”Major Trading Partner in Europe & surrounding areasSource: RedditWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Stacey Shick     at sshick@bloomberg.net

2018-04-26T02:00:12.511Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-26/grandma-working-as-day-trader-shows-what-russians-do-to-survive
When Natalia Orlova isn’t working a $400-a-month job at a Moscow factory that makes Cold War-era space rockets, she’s glued to the trading app she uses to speculate on oil.Lately, the 54-year-old has made a small fortune as crude jumped to 3-1/2 year highs, some of those gains linked to America’s latest sanctions on Russia. Like tens of thousands of Russians, Orlova says day trading is the key to surviving economic gloom: she just bought a new Infiniti and is saving up for an apartment for her two grandsons.“Financial markets are the one place where you can really change your life and pull yourself out of poverty,” Orlova said at a café near her three-room 1950s apartment in a western suburb of Moscow, smiling as she points to the tablet she’s just pulled out of her floral purse. “Since yesterday evening, I’m up 1.5 million rubles ($24,000).”She's doing extraordinarily well -- the majority of Russians whose jobs don't pay the bills would have to work years to earn that much. Whether it’s trying their luck on markets, driving Ubers, mining Bitcoin in Siberia or seeking stardom on YouTube, more and more Russians are taking second jobs just to stay afloat.In fact, as Russia limps out of the longest recession of Vladimir Putin’s 18-year rule, nearly four of every 10 families are struggling to afford food and clothing, according to a survey conducted by the Higher School of Economics, one of Russia's top universities.The number of Russians trading on the Moscow Exchange has doubled since 2010Source: Moscow Exchange2018 figure is for end of March, all others are for year endMaking matters worse, the U.S. slapped penalties on the owner of aluminum giant United Rusal Co., sending the ruble plunging 8 percent in April, the most for any month since 2015. That threatens to stoke inflation, which only last year fell below 4 percent after years of runaway price growth.“People are still struggling. In real terms, wages aren’t even close to levels they were at before the crisis,” said Lilit Gevorgyan, principal economist for Russia and the CIS at IHS Markit in London. “Many have an official full-time job and then at the same time they engage in entrepreneurship activities which aren’t necessarily reported or regulated.”Despite the wild ups and downs, day trading has grown in popularity among Russians, many of whom are tired of trying to live off official wages and watching bank savings dwindle in real terms. The Moscow Exchange opened 250,000 new day trading accounts for citizens last year, taking the total to almost 1.4 million. Individual traders are behind about 37 percent of equity volumes and 7 percent of currency turnover.In many ways, their timing is great given the volatility stemming from Putin’s erratic foreign policy and his deepening rift with American counterpart Donald Trump over the war in Syria and allegations of Russians meddling in elections abroad. On April 9, the first trading day after the U.S. updated its blacklist of Russian oligarchs and companies, the Moscow Exchange registered 4,000 new clients, four times more than normal.The bourse is even offering training and organizing competitions for day traders to keep tabs on their activities and prevent amateurs from suffering big losses, although it says their presence still isn’t big enough to really influence price swings.Yet with the sheer unpredictability of geopolitics, the chances of getting burned are high. Like most investors, Alexander Semenyakov, a Moscow-based computer programmer who trades Russian stocks in his spare time, was caught off guard by the latest sanctions. He lost half the money he made last year when the benchmark stock index slumped 8.3 percent in response.“Luckily I don’t invest all of my savings,” Semenyakov said. “The market is very harsh at the moment. A lot of people have lost money.”He still thinks he’s better off investing though. Russians’ disposable income is just starting to recover after two years of declines since the collapse in oil prices in 2015.So many of the nation’s 144 million people now rely on the so-called gray economy that almost a third of wages are derived from unregulated activities, according to Higher School of Economics estimates. One in five sought additional sources of income in 2017, up from 17 percent the year before, it said.Orlova has gotten used to putting everything on the line. After making her first trading fortune speculating on shares of Yukos oil company when one of its biggest shareholders was arrested in 2003, she sold the small kitchenware stand she was running by a Moscow subway station to invest all her money in markets.That paid off handsomely for a while—until her entire savings were wiped out during the global financial crisis in 2008. The same happened during Russia’s 2014 market crash. Both times she made do with wages from her part-time job as an administrator at the Khrunichev Space Center that builds Proton rockets, until she could get herself back on her feet and jump in all over again.With the female retirement age of 55 around the corner, Orlova said investing is the only way to support her daughter, a poet, and three- and eight-year-old grandsons. In the last quarter of 2017, exchange data show the babushka made 4.5 million rubles.“I need to leave them something because I don’t know how they will survive without me,” Orlova said.— With assistance by Anna Andrianova

2018-04-25T04:00:04.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/why-some-cryptocurrencies-are-only-for-the-wealthy-quicktake
Initial coin offerings, which have become the ground floor for investing in cryptocurrencies that hope to soar like Bitcoin, raised almost $6 billion last year. In most cases, the issuer had no product -- only a white paper jam-packed with business ideas -- and said its coins (or tokens) weren’t securities because they’d be used in running whatever venture it was. Regulators didn’t buy that. Some crypto startups are now pitching their digital coins in a different way, by calling them security tokens, ones that can take advantage of exemptions in securities laws.It’s a virtual unit of currency, much like Bitcoin and its competitors. But where Bitcoin’s often-volatile value is entirely dependent on what its adherents say it is, security tokens are promoted as being tied to actual assets, such as equity in companies, real estate or debt. Crucially, that means issuers of security tokens acknowledge being subject to securities laws, and they design their offerings to fit established exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933.It’s seen as a way to avoid not only the costly registration requirements that apply to the initial public offering of company stock but -- perhaps -- also the regulatory scrutiny and legal uncertainty currently enveloping ICOs. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has opened a broad probe of ICOs, concerned that some should be considered securities and that others seek funding for fake businesses. Some ventures that raised money via the ICO may be forced to refund investors’ money, pay fines, or both. Sellers of security tokens hope their extra care at the start means the SEC won’t come looking for them later.Take Spice VC, a venture-capital fund that looked to raise $100 million and said it secured commitments for $40 million of that in a token pre-sale. It followed the terms of Rule 506c of the SEC’S Regulation D, which spells out conditions under which offers of securities are exempt from normal registration rules, and Section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, which allows private funds to avoid SEC rules. That meant, in Spice VC’s case, offering sales documents to a maximum of 99 prospective investors, who had to register on its website, certify that they are accredited (read: wealthy), provide proof of identification and respect applicable lock-up periods before selling their tokens. Issuers using the exemptions must check that buyers aren’t laundering funds and disclose operational information to the public on a regular basis after the sale.Because so much money has been raised, and can be raised, through ICOs, which are open to anybody with an internet connection -- no accreditation needed.Worried about regulatory scrutiny, most established cryptocurrency exchanges don’t yet offer security tokens. That’s given rise to a new wave of companies, with names like Templum and tZero, that issue tokens in hopes of becoming token exchanges. Some have launched, and others are in the works. Spice VC’s own venture is a platform called Securitize, which "enables the tokenization of assets to make tokens tradable and increase their liquidity." Circle Internet Finance Ltd., a startup that lets people make instant money transfers, recently bought digital token exchange Poloniex as part of a bid to break into trading digital assets.— With assistance by Benjamin Bain

2018-04-25T11:00:00.013Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/why-schwab-s-ceo-bets-you-won-t-be-trading-stocks-on-amazon
Walt Bettinger, the chief executive officer at Charles Schwab Corp., has some friendly advice for Amazon.com Inc.’s Jeff Bezos: Think twice before getting into the investment business.“If you’re a FAANG-type company and you decide you want to come into our space in a manner consistent with the way we operate, you will invite the Federal Reserve into every single thing you do,” Bettinger said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in San Francisco. “It’s a wide moat and a big decision to make.”The matter may not be academic. While none of the so-called FAANGs -- Facebook Inc., Amazon, Apple Inc., Netflix Inc. and Google -- has encroached on finance in a serious way, several have entered or experimented with mobile payments and consumer credit. The widespread expectation is banking, money management or some form of investment advice is the inevitable next step.Analysts have been quizzing Bettinger and his management team: What if? At Schwab’s annual investor meeting in February one of those executives called it “the most interesting topic on everyone’s mind” and said, “Other than Bitcoin, this is what people talk about.”That’s not to say competing would be easy. San Francisco-based Schwab offers everything from exchange-traded funds to bank accounts to $4.95 online stock trades, and it runs a so-called robo adviser, which uses software to customize investment portfolios at a fraction of the traditional cost. The company says its $3.3 trillion in client assets allows it to fend off would-be disruptors and manage costs more efficiently than rivals such as TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., E*Trade Financial Corp., Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch or Morgan Stanley.Read more: Why Google and Amazon keep Fidelity and BlackRock up at nightFor now, most of the speculation revolves around Amazon. The company already has a credit card for consumers, the Amazon Prime Rewards Visa. It also has held talks with banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. about at least two additional types of financial products: a co-branded card for small-business owners and online accounts for millennials.In a report last month, Bain & Co. predicted that by partnering with a bank and employing the same low-margin strategy it used to gain market share in e-commerce, Amazon could build financial relationships with 70 million customers -- as many as Wells Fargo & Co. -- in just five years.“Large technology firms already have established brands and access to customers, both of which provide a massive distribution advantage,” Bain partners Gerard du Toit and Aaron Cheris said in the report.While bank partnerships may help companies like Amazon expand into finance without the burden of Fed oversight, getting into the investing business may require a more direct approach. Some analysts have speculated that one of the FAANGs might buy E*Trade.That’s why Bettinger has a second piece of friendly advice:“In our business the markets don’t just go up; markets go down too,” he said in the Bloomberg TV interview. “If you have an exceptionally successful business model and you’re one of the FAANGs, do you want to move into a business where 40 percent of the time you’re going to disappoint your clients?”— With assistance by Kristy Westgard

2018-04-24T06:01:22.315Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-24/chinese-metoo-student-activists-use-blockchain-to-fight-censors
Student activists trying to ignite the #MeToo movement in China have turned to the technology behind bitcoin to battle government censorship.The rare display of dissent emerged after student Yue Xin accused prestigious Peking University of trying to silence her demands for a public airing of a sexual harassment episode more than 20 years ago. While she wasn’t involved in that long-ago incident, college officials have allegedly tried to intimidate and muzzle her, Yue wrote in an open letter Monday. The school forced her to delete information about the case and asked her parents to confine her to home, the undergraduate wrote.Yue’s open missive touched a nerve in a country that’s long dealt with endemic gender discrimination away from the public spotlight, and where the #MeToo movement has been suppressed. It’s also an unusual protest against authority, particularly given Peking University has for decades been the alma mater of top Communist Party officials including Premier Li Keqiang. The letter went viral on platforms including Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s WeChat and Sina Corp.’s Weibo before related posts were quickly deleted.That’s when her supporters then stamped her memo on the ethereum blockchain Monday -- ensuring it could never be erased nor tampered with.An anonymous user attached Yue’s letter to an ether transaction and posted it to the blockchain: the decentralized ledger that records all activity for the cryptocurrency. That transaction cost the poster all of 52 cents, according to the record. While that means anyone with access to an ethereum node can now see the memo, it won’t be easy for the general public to access -- unless someone copies the message from the ledger and reposts it on the web. Even then, Chinese authorities could easily block the site.“It’s symbolic but won’t be easily adopted by the public masses," said Isaac Mao, a San Francisco-based entrepreneur who’s building a media platform that uses blockchain technology to fight censorship. "Decentralised media still has miles to go. But it gives people new hope.”Users have adopted other creative methods to bypass the watchdogs: distorting photos of the letter (to avert object recognition software) or flipping it upside down. Posters voicing support have sprung up on campus grounds. Peking University on Monday published a statement on its website to say it “always respected the basic rights of every student and strives to protect the legitimate rights and interests of every student.”“This is the biggest incident in more than 10 years that students decided to ask the authorities to do more to boost transparency,” said Du Guang, a former researcher at the Central Party School, a Beijing-based government think-tank. “This incident reminds me of the student movements in the early Communist era.”But it’s the blockchain method that ensures an indelible record.“There’s no 404, it’s permanent,” said one response posted on the blockchain, referring to the error code that denotes a missing webpage and typically pops up when Chinese censors delete information deemed inappropriate.

2018-04-25T19:03:56.326Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/cryptocurrencies-take-a-step-back-amid-software-bug-concern
Resurgent cryptocurrencies were able to shrug off yesterday’s broad financial market sell-off, but they’re not so immune today amid concern that one of the cornerstones of the sector has run into some problems.There’s a bug in some ERC20 tokens (those based on the Ethereum network). A researcher in a post on Medium alleged "more than a dozen" are susceptible. ERC20 tokens make up about 90 percent of the $53 billion token market, according to data by CoinMarketCap. In response, at least two exchanges, Poloniex and OKEx, temporarily suspended ERC20 token deposits. The service is back up on Poloniex.This comes a day after some users of MyEtherWallet, an app for storing and sending Ether and Ethereum-based tokens, were attacked and lost funds. The app said in a Reddit post that hackers didn’t get to the app itself but were able to hijack servers. And on Monday, former Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler made the case that Ethereum’s Ether could be considered a security, which would reduce the number of exchanges that can trade the second-largest crypto.All this may be weighing on the broader market, with Bitcoin slumping back below $9,000, and Ether briefly breaching $600. But it takes more than a 7 percent drop on Bitcoin to phase crypto traders.“Over the past 24 hours we did see some negative headline news that are potentially impacting the market but we’ve gone up really fast by quite a bit, so corrections are to be expected," said Bart Michalczuk of crypto fund Blocklink Ventures.

2018-04-26T00:00:14.298Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-26/central-bankers-can-t-agree-on-cryptocurrencies
The joke doing the rounds at last week’s spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington was that central banks are looking into cryptocurrencies so that their governors have something to say when they go to conferences and are asked about Bitcoin.Okay, it’s not that funny. But it says something about how nervous central bankers are about the brave new world of cryptos. Since cryptocurrencies have gone mainstream, there has been a deluge of speeches and research papers from the world’s top supervisors over the role of digital currencies and the regulatory questions they raise. It’s clear that the cross-border nature of digital currencies means coordination on the regulatory front is required; but there is little consensus over how to do this.Central bankers generally agree with one another that privately issued cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum aren’t set to replace traditional currencies. This consensus was well-summarized in the recent IMF “Global Financial Stability Report,” which noted how cryptocurrencies are still far from fulfilling the three textbook functions of money. “While they may serve as a store of value, their use as a medium of exchange has been limited and their elevated volatility has prevented them from becoming a reliable unit of account,” IMF researchers wrote.Regulators also agree that, while they need to keep a watchful eye on cryptocurrencies, there are much bigger things to worry about. The likes of Bitcoin still represent only a tiny share of the global financial system: Their total market value has grown exponentially, but remains less than 3 percent of the combined balance sheet of the world’s four largest central banks.But the central banker consensus breaks down when it comes to how to regulate cryptocurrencies. In a new paper for the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy at the Brookings Institution, Eswar Prasad, a professor of economics at Cornell University, has offered an extensive list of the many ways in which regulators have approached the Bitcoin question. This ranges from the United States, where the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has taken a more laissez-faire approach by classifying cryptocurrencies as commodities, to China, where the People’s Bank of China has banned all cryptocurrency trading.The differences in approach mean the effectiveness of regulation is limited. A consumer based in China can still trade Bitcoin on an exchange based in the U.S. Crypto-trading is a risky activity, and not just because of the volatility: There have already been instances of fraud and technological vulnerabilities on a number of exchanges. Were there to be a much larger failure, this would trigger a confidence crisis, whose repercussions would be global. In the face of widespread losses among consumers, regulators would be left scrambling to reconcile their different positions.The need for coordination would be even greater were central banks to issue their own digital currencies, as some (for example in Sweden) have begun to consider. This idea could entail letting citizens have an account directly with the central bank, much as they do now with commercial lenders.As Prasad notes, a central bank digital currency would have major implications both for the running of monetary policy and for financial stability. Central banks may find it easier to implement a range of unorthodox policies, such as “helicopter drops” or “negative rates.” These policies would be applied directly in each individual’s central bank account, which would make them more powerful than if they had to go through the banking system.The impact on financial stability, however, could be negative: As customers chose to hold central bank digital currencies, commercial lenders would be deprived of a cheap source of funding. During a crisis, many depositors who had preferred to keep their money in an account with a private lender would seek shelter in the central bank digital currency, causing a run. Finally, a crisis could prompt severe cross-country flows, as customers chose to move their money away from a given digital currency into a safer one. The transnational implications of these changes are therefore pretty clear. Regulators based in a country experiencing a severe outflow of digital currencies may feel obliged to impose capital controls. Meanwhile, their colleagues who see substantial inflows into their “safe haven” country may prefer to restrict foreigners from holding their own digital currency, to avoid excessive exposure abroad.  So far, there have been some limited attempts at central bank cooperation: The Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank teamed up to study the technology underlying digital currencies, before concluding this was not mature enough to power the world’s main payment systems. The Bank of Canada and the Monetary Authority of Singapore have chosen to collaborate on a study, too. The Bank for International Settlements — of which 60 central banks are members — is spearheading the international efforts into the analysis of digital currencies.The trouble is that countries face different incentives in deciding whether to develop an official digital currency. Sweden’s Riksbank has moved ahead of the pack because the use of cash is collapsing there. Central banks in emerging markets could quickly follow: The advantages in terms of improving the payment systems and increasing access to finance are greater there than in advanced economies. These central banks also have less to fear about outcompeting traditional lenders, since their banking systems are typically underdeveloped. Countries will naturally move at different speeds, which will inevitably make cooperation harder.Of course, we are still far from the moment when one of the world’s largest central banks chooses to adopt a digital currency. And monetary policy makers have well-established channels of communication, which have proven very effective during the financial crisis and other moments of turmoil. But it’s clear already that it would be far better if countries came up with shared ideas rather than going it alone. It would make for duller panel discussions at conferences, but a more resilient financial system.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Ferdinando Giugliano at fgiugliano@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Therese Raphael at traphael4@bloomberg.net

2018-04-25T14:43:56.691Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/venture-firm-with-rockefeller-roots-turns-to-crypto-startups
A venture capital firm that sprang from the Rockefeller fortune is setting its sights on cryptocurrency businesses while sticking to its roots: investing in startup equity rather than simply snapping up digital tokens.While hundreds of new hedge funds have popped up to speculate on Bitcoin and its ilk, Venrock Associates is taking “a more disciplined approach,” said David Pakman, a partner at the New York-based firm.While it may put money into some tokens, it’s principally looking to get stakes in startups before they issue their own cryptocurrencies, Pakman said. The firm’s partners have already invested in CoinFund, which buys tokens.Venrock was started with 1969 as a venture-capital arm of the Rockefellers, and the family remains a limited partner. The firm has made lucrative bets on other young enterprises: It led Apple Inc.’s first venture round and invested in Intel Corp. before the chipmaker got big. The company’s latest fund is $450 million, and crypto is one of its big wagers.“I think this is one of the most transformative tech ecosystems and has the possibility of creating hundreds of companies worth billions of dollars each,” Pakman said.Venture capital funding on blockchain companies picked up in last three monthsSource: CoinDeskVenrock has a four-person team working on investing in crypto startups. The 49-year-old Pakman, who joined the firm in 2008, said he devotes half his time to crypto-related projects, and the rest looking at robotics and consumer-product startups. The onetime internet entrepreneur and co-creator of Apple Inc.’s Music Group said he’s looked at hundreds of crypto hopefuls.“We are evaluating scores a week,” Pakman said. “We are really active.”Pakman said he’s more likely to invest in blockchain technologies than in the applications they may eventually support. Investing in the apps themselves could come later, as blockchain-like systems spawn new Facebooks and Twitters to compete with the web giants. One member of Venrock’s crypto team, Ethan Batraski, was a product leader at Facebook Inc.“I am approaching this from the very first that this is a fundamentally interesting technological innovation that enabled very serious value creation and may also be a legitimate way to build value away from internet platforms of today,” Pakman said.Other funds are looking at equity investments as regulation of token sales -- and their legality -- remains murky. Such investors can often later buy a startup’s tokens on favorable terms, boosting overall returns.Pakman has already personally invested in tokens and mined them -- using his computers to support underlying networks for a reward. He focuses his mining on Ethereum, whose currency, Ether, is second only to Bitcoin in the crypto market. Following last year’s rally, Bitcoin is down by more than 30 percent since the beginning of 2018, while Ether is down by more than 22 percent.“I’ve just come to believe in Ethereum so strongly, I just want to hold it,” he said. “The number of projects building on top of Ethereum is so unbelievably large that you have to declare it a successful platform.”Don’t expect Venrock to trade Ether itself, though.“We are not creating a crypto fund that’s buying and selling currencies,” Pakman said. “We still are a venture capital firm.”

2018-04-26T02:27:43.212Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-04-26/samsung-s-winning-big-from-a-boom-in-the-boring-stuff
Samsung Electronics Co.’s handy little profit surprise in the three months ended in March didn’t come from those areas for which the South Korean giant is most famous.While its Galaxy smartphone did help drive sales, its OLED panels business – in which Samsung is the global leader – was a drag on earnings.Hunger for the panels that go into the iPhone X boosted hopes this could be a long-term winner. But not only is the Apple Inc. flagship not selling so well, Cupertino is already making plans to move away from OLED in future devices. People familiar with the plans have told me there may be only one or two more cycles of OLED before alternative technology is brought in, possibly MicroLED.Which leaves us with the real hero, memory chips. And not those used in humdrum devices such as PCs, tablets and phones, but in the good stuff, like high-end servers and graphics cards.Cryptocurrency was cited as a spur, which will get the Bitcoin crowd excited, but thankfully the strength runs deeper than anarchists’ favorite play toy. Datacenters are where it’s at, not only in DRAM (which speeds up processing), but also NAND flash (which stores data).Samsung's chip division is the most profitable it's been in at least five yearsSource: Bloomberg, SamsungOperating margins at Samsung’s chip division climbed above 55 percent, the highest in at least five years, according to Gadfly calculations. It’s unlikely such elevated margins can be sustained for long, but there’s good reason to bet on high-performance computing applications such as AI and machine learning to continue the growth.That was one of the themes of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.’s earnings call last week, when executives said high-performance computing will contribute more growth than smartphones.Components for big fat servers aren’t as sexy as smartphones and their fancy OLED screens, but they make money. And that’s all that matters right now.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.To contact the author of this story:Tim Culpan in Taipei at tculpan1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:Katrina Nicholas at knicholas2@bloomberg.net

2018-04-24T09:43:30.130Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-24/cryptocurrencies-climb-again-as-april-rally-storms-toward-75
The world’s biggest cryptocurrencies rose again on Tuesday, extending their April rally deep into its fourth week and taking this month’s increase to more than 75 percent.Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash and EOS helped lead the advance, prices compiled by Bloomberg and Coinmarketcap.com show. Market leader Bitcoin climbed 4.4 percent; its trading volume in the 10 biggest exchanges has topped $2 billion during the past 24 hours -- similar to Alphabet Inc.’s daily volume -- according to Coinmarketcap.com.“The backdrop is less negative,” said Marc Ostwald, global strategist at ADM Investor Services in London. “The noise from regulators has been far less destructive in recent weeks than since the end of last year, and we haven’t had a big theft from an exchange recently.”After the January crash, and several selloffs that were sometimes attributed to traders getting spooked by market events or crypto heists, Bitcoin’s recent rally has taken it back up to its level in early March.“A lot of people who trade Bitcoin do it off technicals, the same as any commodity, like wheat or oil,” Ostwald said. “For some of them, there’s clearly a downtrend broken, after a double-bottom.”The digital coin surge in April coincided with many of the world’s stock and bond markets struggling for direction. Traders in traditional assets have had to factor in higher yields and inflation forecasts, as well as the shifting narrative of the U.S. and China trade dispute and tensions between America and Russia.Even with their 76 percent jump in April, the 10 most liquid digital coins as a group still trade more than 40 percent below their record high posted in early January.

2018-04-25T14:32:11.681Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-25/what-if-hypothetically-yahoo-had-been-hacked
Yahoo!?Here is some pretty disclosurey disclosure:If our security measures are breached, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of Yahoo’s users’ and customers’ personal and proprietary information in our facilities and on our equipment, networks and corporate systems. Security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, remediation costs, increased costs for security measures, loss of revenue, damage to our reputation, and potential liability. ... Security breaches or unauthorized access have resulted in and may in the future result in a combination of significant legal and financial exposure, increased remediation and other costs, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products, services and networks that could have an adverse effect on our business. We take steps to prevent unauthorized access to our corporate systems, however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers.It is from the risk factors in Yahoo! Inc.’s Form 10-K for 2014, filed a few months after Yahoo discovered that it had suffered a massive security breach, and a few years before Yahoo publicly disclosed that breach. Imagine if we got hacked, said Yahoo, after it had been hacked. That would be really bad for our stock price, it said, about the hack, which had happened, and which turned out to be bad for its stock price. It is a perfect example of a certain kind of lawyerly thinking: If a bad thing has happened, and you don’t want to disclose it, but you do want to be able to say that you had disclosed it, why not disclose that the bad thing is hypothetically possible, so that people are theoretically on hypothetical notice about it? It is … not a great approach. But to be fair “Yahoo’s senior management and legal teams did not share information regarding the breach with Yahoo’s auditors or outside counsel in order to assess the company’s disclosure obligations in its public filings,” so you can’t exactly blame the lawyers here.That last quote is from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which yesterday fined Yahoo — well, actually, Altaba Inc., the entity formerly known as Yahoo — $35 million for sitting on knowledge of the data breach for almost two years. Not only did it not disclose this material event, but Yahoo's filings, as the SEC put it, “misleadingly suggested that a significant data breach had not yet occurred, and that therefore the company only faced the risk of data breaches and any negative effects that might flow from future breaches.” If they just hadn’t mentioned data breaches — if data breaches just weren’t the sort of thing that Yahoo’s management thought about—then, you know, that would be dumb, but I suppose it would have been almost possible to claim that Yahoo didn’t think it was a big deal that needed to be disclosed. But Yahoo did know, and described in detail, how bad it would be if its systems were breached. It just forgot to mention that they were.The SEC has been on a bit of a cybersecurity kick recently; in February, it released “guidance to assist public companies in preparing disclosures about cybersecurity risks and incidents.” I confess that I do not fully understand why this is a big deal. Cybersecurity breaches can be bad, and if they are bad a company should disclose them, the same way it should disclose if a factory blew up or a product turned out to be poisoning people or whatever. Just as in those cases, the company will be disinclined to disclose, because the disclosure would be embarrassing, and would potentially give competitors an opportunity to take away customers. And the company will weigh its disclosure obligations against its own preferences and try to come up with some way to satisfy the law while providing a minimum of actual insight, as one tends to do, in securities disclosures. And the SEC will push back and try to get companies to write disclosure that reflects how they actually think about and manage their businesses, and the companies will constantly filter that disclosure through layers of lawyering that ends up making it hypothetical and not especially useful.But that doesn’t seem different in kind from how companies disclose any other bad thing that can happen to them. And it’s not like companies don’t know that data breaches are a serious risk or that they would be material to shareholders. After all, they’re disclosing them already! Just, hypothetically.The BCFP, a/k/a CFPB.Mick Mulvaney, the unenthusiastic part-time acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, wants “to end public access to a web portal used by hundreds of thousands of consumers each year to file complaints against financial companies” because those complaints have not been fully reviewed:“I don’t see anything in here that says I have to run a Yelp for financial services sponsored by the federal government,” Mr. Mulvaney said at a banking industry conference, holding up a copy of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial law that created the CFPB.Does he … carry around a copy of Dodd-Frank everywhere, the way other politicians keep a copy of the Constitution in their pockets? Who uses the Dodd-Frank Act as a prop? Anyway, consumer advocates object:“It’s an incredibly important tool that empowers consumers,” said Aaron Klein, a policy director at the Brookings Institution. “Why would he want to reduce information so people could make less-informed choices?”I have to say that I find that objection somewhat unrealistic: The people likely to be suckered by bad consumer financial services are overwhelmingly unlikely to be the people who carefully review the CFPB’s complaint database before choosing financial services. The point of the CFPB, you’d think, would be to take consumer complaints, evaluate them, and then punish or remedy any problems — not to take the complaints, publish them, and let the consumers sort them out for themselves. Of course the concern is that Mulvaney’s CFPB won’t do either one, and arguably letting consumers evaluate the complaints is preferable to having no one do it.What else did Mulvaney get up to at that conference?Mr. Mulvaney also said he would begin calling the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau by its official statutory name, the more obscure Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. … “I’m trying to get in the habit of now saying the ‘B.C.F.P.’ It’s really, really hard to do that when you’ve said the C.F.P.B. for so long,” Mr. Mulvaney told the bankers.Ah. I feel like there is some sort of symbolism there that has gone entirely over my head. But also:“We had a hierarchy in my office in Congress,” Mr. Mulvaney, a former Republican lawmaker from South Carolina, told 1,300 bankers and lending industry officials at an American Bankers Association conference in Washington. “If you’re a lobbyist who never gave us money, I didn’t talk to you. If you’re a lobbyist who gave us money, I might talk to you.”Ah yes the old trick of explicitly telling bankers to give you money in order to change regulations to benefit them! I mean. It is an approach. When he started at the CFPB, Mick Mulvaney wrote a nice memo about the rule of law, and I praised him for it, and I’ve felt like a bit of a sucker ever since.Gender pay gaps.Here is a column by Andrew Ross Sorkin about a study finding that “there may be no pay gap at all between male and female chief executives of publicly traded companies.” Here is an article about how more Fortune 500 CEOs are men named James than are women. So: two data points!There are at least three ways to think about the gender pay gap, and in the case of CEOs they all seem to point in different directions:Basically the data seems to be that male CEOs are paid more than female CEOs in aggregate, less on average (or median), and about the same after adjusting for some lists of factors.If you are considering societal structure and equality of opportunities, then you will probably care about aggregates — it seems important to have at least as many women as Jameses in high-powered positions, not just to pay the women who are in those positions as much as the Jameses — though that is debatable. If you are considering whether a company is paying women fairly, based on its own criteria and the actual performance and experience of the actual women who work there, then you will probably care about adjusted averages, though that is also debatable. Given that each company has one CEO, it’s hard to see why anyone should care that much about adjusted measures of CEO pay, but, you know, it is something.The crypto.Everyone knows that Bitcoin is not a great medium of exchange because its value fluctuates so wildly, but that problem has broader implications than just Bitcoin’s usefulness as a currency. For instance, if you have an agreement in principle to invest in a cryptocurrency business, and you take a month to do due diligence, or even sleep on it overnight, then you shouldn’t expect the deal to still be there when you get back:According to the Hong Kong court filings, Zhao and Sequoia began negotiating terms of an investment in Binance in August. The deal would have given Sequoia a nearly 11 percent stake and valued the exchange at about $80 million.Talks continued over the next few months, the court documents show, a period in which cryptocurrency prices and transaction values soared to all-time highs. But in mid-December, as Bitcoin traded at a record near $20,000, the negotiations broke down.On Dec. 14, Zhao’s team told Sequoia that Binance’s existing shareholders thought their proposed deal undervalued the exchange. Around the same time, Zhao was approached by another VC firm, IDG Capital, with an offer that would have injected two rounds of funding into Binance at vastly higher valuations: $400 million and $1 billion, respectively.That’s from a story about how venture-capital firm Sequoia Capital is suing Zhao Changpeng, the founder of Binance, over a busted deal; “at issue is whether Zhao’s talks with IDG Capital violated his exclusivity agreements with Sequoia.” I have to say, even if they did, it’s hard to blame him: If you strike a deal to sell some of your crypto exchange at an $80 million valuation, you can’t really wait around for months to finalize it. Crypto valuations seem like they’d be good for a day or two, tops. If your buyer is taking too long to get back to you, eventually you’re going to get another offer at 10 times the price, exclusivity or not. And if you’re the buyer taking months to finalize a deal at a fixed price, then you are to some extent missing the point of crypto.Elsewhere in crypto exchanges:The Winklevoss twins brought in the pros to keep cheaters off their cryptocurrency exchange.Their company, Gemini Trust Co., hired Nasdaq Inc. to conduct market surveillance for Bitcoin and Ether trading as well as the auction that helps price Cboe Global Markets Inc.’s Bitcoin futures, according to a statement Wednesday. It’s the first partnership between a well-known exchange like Nasdaq and a digital-asset market to help safeguard the nascent $433 billion cryptocurrency sector.One thing you can say about traditional financial firms is, they have learned some things about how to do finance. This is not just a matter of the deep macro principles — what is money, who should have it, etc. — that cryptocurrency innovators want to upend. It is also a matter of a million different random micro processes about, like, how to run an exchange with a surveillance system designed to catch spoofing. When you’re redesigning finance and economics from basic principles, you tend not to think about that sort of thing at first. But once you are trying to actually operate an exchange, I guess you need to license some technology. On the other hand: “A loud noise knocked out computers that run stock exchanges across northern Europe.” So there is room for improvement, sure.Food and Not Food Stuff.One of my fundamental beliefs is that the best business model is getting people to pay you not to do something. A classic of the form is the old story that the great mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer Joe Flom “was so feared as an adversary that he was frequently paid handsome retainer fees by companies nervous about becoming takeover targets,” just to keep him from working for a bidder. I probably first heard that story when I was a junior M&A lawyer working hundred-hour weeks actually doing deals, and the thought of being paid more money not to do deals has haunted me ever since.Here is a Bloomberg News story about Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen posting better-than-expected same-store sales numbers last quarter because people really like late-night fried-chicken delivery. Here is a Bloomberg News story about how Silicon Valley startups are getting into the business — somehow it is a business — of fasting. “Not a fan of ‘late capitalism’ meme,” tweeted Matthew Klein of Barron’s, “but seems appropriate to describe charging people hundreds of dollars just to tell them not to eat.” You can read the article to figure out how the startups are monetizing not-food — also, to figure out how this counts as “Silicon Valley” — but I prefer to just use my imagination. And what I particularly prefer to imagine is Popeyes getting into the fasting business. Sure people will apparently pay $17.99 for Popeyes to deliver them an eight-piece fried chicken meal, but what I want to know is, how much will people pay for Popeyes not to deliver them an eight-piece fried chicken meal? Because nothing will mess with your calorie-restriction plan like a bucket of fried chicken delivered to your house  at midnight. If not giving people food can be a business, surely it can be a lucrative bolt-on business for a company that is otherwise in the business of giving people food? Like if Popeyes charged $17.99 for chicken and $24.99 for no chicken, presumably same-store sales would skyrocket, and with essentially no increase in costs. Please invest in my ICO.Things happen.What’s Farallon Capital Management founder Tom Steyer up to? PDVSA’s Secured Creditors Organize Ahead of Payment. Facebook Has Hosted Stolen Identities and Social Security Numbers for Years. A $3 Trillion Credit Market Has Corporate Bond Investors on Edge. Pimco’s New Bond King Could Be a Robot in Austin. More on WeWork and its bond offering. Comcast Formalizes Bid for Sky in Challenge to Murdoch's Fox. Chinese Ride-Hailing Giant Didi Hits Accelerator on Talks for IPO. “Mutual funds that invest in private tech companies are surprisingly good at predicting what a tech company will be worth when it goes public, an analysis of recent IPOs shows.” “We tacked them to the wall and threw 10 darts, with the first eight designated as longs and the last two designated as shorts.” Millennial Wall Streeters Turn to Pot. Are banker bags bad? Newspaper op-eds change minds. “Male [hand grip strength] predicts measures of aggression and social dominance, perceived formidability, male-typical body morphology and movement, courtship display, physical attractiveness, and sexual behavior and reproductive fitness.”If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-23T14:28:04.228Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-23/wells-fargo-pays-some-more-fines
Wells Fargo.I don't think I've ever heard a regulator sound so downcast about a big victory:"I am especially pleased that we were able to work closely and effectively with our colleagues at the OCC, and I appreciate the key role they played in the negotiations," said Bureau Acting Director Mick Mulvaney. "As to the terms of the settlement: we have said all along that we will enforce the law. That is what we did here."That's Mick Mulvaney, the part-time acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which last week, along with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, fined Wells Fargo & Co. $1 billion for doing some bad consumer stuff. Not for the infamous fake accounts -- the CFPB and OCC fined Wells Fargo, $100 million and $35 million respectively, for those back in 2016 -- but for requiring auto-loan borrowers to pay for Wells Fargo's insurance on their cars even when the borrowers already had their own insurance, and for charging mortgage borrowers to extend interest-rate locks even when the need for an extension was Wells Fargo's fault. It is all a bit less sexy than the fake accounts, which had the public-relations advantages of being ridiculous and having a catchy name. "Force-placed auto insurance" doesn't have the same obvious comedy as "fake accounts." But the fine is much bigger, and probably deservedly so: The fake accounts don't seem to have made much money for Wells Fargo, or cost consumers much; the auto insurance thing actually cost money.So the quote is weird: This is the biggest fine ever imposed by the CFPB, but Mulvaney wants to deflect credit from the CFPB altogether. This was the OCC's doing, he implies -- it's tied for the biggest fine ever imposed by the OCC too, by the way -- and the CFPB was just along for the ride. It was just doing what the law requires. It took no pleasure in fining Wells Fargo. Most heads of regulatory agencies, of course, would be happy to announce the biggest fine in the agency's history, since most regulators are in their jobs because they want to regulate. But for Mulvaney it is an embarrassment because he is very explicitly in the job because he doesn't want to regulate, thinks the CFPB is a "sad, sick joke," and has promised to stop the agency from "pushing the envelope" in its enforcement. To the untrained eye, imposing the agency's biggest-ever fine might look a bit like pushing the envelope, so Mulvaney needs to reassure his audience that that was not his intent.The charitable reading is that this is in keeping with Mulvaney's stated commitment to the rule of law: This penalty is not the swashbuckling CFPB going out and bringing big cases to assert its clout, but just a melancholy consequence of following the law. That is hard to evaluate. For one thing, $1,000,000,000.00 is a suspiciously round number for a fine, and there is no real explanation of how the CFPB or OCC arrived at that number or how much consumers were harmed. (The CFPB notes that "the anticipated amount of the total remediation to be paid, refunded, or remitted to customers exceeds $10 million," but that seems to be regulatory boilerplate rather than a real estimate.) Also, here is an article about the possibility, which you really can't rule out, that the CFPB and OCC fined Wells Fargo so much because Donald Trump tweeted about it. ("I was aware of some of his public statements several months back but did not consult with the president on this consent order," said Mulvaney, which ... sounds like a yes?) If you were trying to demonstrate a commitment to the rule of law, you might explain the connection between the misconduct and the penalty a bit more clearly, instead of just looking really sad about the whole thing.Elsewhere, here is James Stewart arguing that Wells Fargo has already been punished enough, which is kind of a random thing to think. Use every bank after its desert, and who should 'scape whipping, y'know?First loss.Everyone knows the old chestnut that hedge funds are "a compensation scheme masquerading as an asset class," but arguably that underestimates the power of compensation schemes to transform asset classes. For instance, imagine a compensation scheme in which:Assuming that you trust me and I am creditworthy -- big assumptions, sure -- then this compensation scheme really transforms the risk profile of ____, whatever ____ is. If I invest your money in emerging-market stocks or cryptocurrencies or lottery tickets, and give you the returns, then that will be volatile, and you will have a significant risk of losing all your money. But if I invest your money in emerging-market stocks or cryptocurrencies or lottery tickets, and give you 50 percent of the profits while eating 100 percent of the losses myself, then the risks and returns on that strategy -- for you -- will look very different. They'll look sort of like a bond, or a bond with occasional bonus payouts I guess. If you were examining your portfolio's overall exposures, you wouldn't quite want to classify that investment -- not really -- as exposure to emerging markets or cryptocurrencies or whatever. It would not have the risk profile you'd expect from those investments. It would look like its own weird thing. Not quite an "asset class," perhaps, but not the same thing as the underlying asset class anyway.That is not the hedge-fund compensation plan. (The hedge fund plan is, if there are gains, you get 80 percent and I keep 20 percent; if there are losses, you get 100 percent of them, though high-water marks complicate that a bit.) But it is -- almost -- this compensation plan:Here’s how first-loss works: Managers like Paulson put their own money into an account within a first-loss fund, and any of the three firms contribute nine times as much from their investors. Managers get to keep about 55 percent of the trading profits, more than double the standard industry cut. But should the strategy go awry, all of the losses come out of their invested capital until it’s gone.“The upside, if you do well, is good,” said Karl Cole-Frieman, whose law firm advises hedge funds on seeding deals and other structuring issues. “The downside, if you do poorly, is disastrous.”That's from this article about "first-loss funds" provided by firms like Topwater Capital, Prelude Capital Management and Boothbay Fund Management, and specifically about how Paulson & Co., "after suffering years of losses and redemptions," is signing up to be the at-risk manager of some of those funds. The profile here is almost the one I laid out above, except that (1) the manager keeps 55 rather than 50 percent of the profits, and (2) the manager is only at risk for the first 10 percent of losses. But first-loss providers "can shut down an account once most of the hedge fund manager’s capital is gone," to try to minimize their exposure to losses past 10 percent. "Believe me, Prelude and Topwater never get a loss," says a hedge-fund lawyer.Just for fun I modeled up a one-year first-loss strategy on the S&P 500 Index:This is just a toy -- and not investing advice -- but it suggests that if you found a manager to invest in the S&P 500 using this compensation scheme, where the manager gets 55 percent of the gains (the at-the-money call in the first column) takes the first 10 percent of losses (the put spread in the next two columns), then that would be equivalent to paying the manager a 0.7 percent fee. Which is ... you know ... in the ballpark of money-management fees? I'm sure some bank somewhere is offering a retail structured note that looks a lot like this.But the point is that you can do this on all sorts of things -- stocks or bonds or cryptocurrencies or, in Paulson's case, merger-arbitrage trades -- and kind of flatten out the profile. What Topwater et al. are getting isn't merger arbitrage, it's merger arbitrage run through this flattening scheme. Which is safer but less lucrative for them than merger arbitrage, or whatever the underlying strategy is.Why would you invest in hedge funds? Well, there are lots of reasons, because there are lots of different types of hedge funds that do lots of different things. (They're a compensation scheme, remember, not an asset class.) One popular reason is "I will invest with this star hedge-fund manager because he will likely get me huge returns." That had a certain vogue, but is now harder to argue for just because you don't see so many managers like that anymore. Another popular reason is that the hedge funds will have medium-sized but steady returns that are somewhat uncorrelated to other asset classes; this reason -- which is kind of the opposite of the first one -- puts the "hedge" back in "hedge fund," and is more popular now. If what you are looking for from your hedge funds is essentially conservatism, then it may sometimes seem like an odd incentive to pay managers 20 percent of their winnings and charge them zero percent of their losses. Paying them 55 percent of their winnings but charging them 100 percent of their losses may be a compensation scheme that is closer to the asset class you want.[Update: The toy calculation I did of the S&P 500 first-loss strategy produces a price of 1.3 percent of the call-option notional in the first column. But the call options are on only 55 percent of the underlying shares, so it's really a price of 0.7 percent of the total amount. I have corrected it above.]People are worried about liquidity.All kinds!Investors are having a tougher time trading in a number of financial markets, a development that is weakening their ability to raise cash or to protect against big stock declines.The capacity to get in or out of an investment, known as liquidity, was rarely tested during the long stretch when stocks and bonds rallied with little volatility. Now as inflation concerns, trade anxiety and tension in Syria roil markets, investors notice it is getting harder to trade as easily.Stocks, options, corporate bonds; "this year’s volatility has even hampered liquidity in the popular E-mini S&P 500 futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange." "It’s like going into a grocery store and there’s nothing on the shelves," says a guy.Back when we used to talk all the time about people worrying that volatility was too low -- before volatility got higher in February -- I was fond of pointing out that a well-known puzzle about the stock market is that volatility is generally too high; stocks move around more than is justified by their actual cash flows. What if, I pondered, the decline of volatility was due to markets becoming smarter: As investors indexed more and relied more on algorithms and generally became more logical and less beholden to animal whims, wouldn't you expect volatility to go down?Another quite well-known puzzle is that the amount of trading in stock markets is generally too high; people buy and sell stocks far more often than could be justified by their having an informational edge. What if -- I might ponder now -- the decline of liquidity is due to markets becoming smarter? As investors index more and rely more on algorithms and generally become more logical and more cost-driven and less beholden to animal whims, wouldn't you expect the amount of trading to go down? I guess this wasn't really true for volatility, so whatever, but it's worth pondering. The crypto.Vitalik Buterin, who invented Ethereum, had Lunch with the FT and was pleasingly introspective. There is an occasional tendency among cryptocurrency enthusiasts to think that they are at the vanguard of the revolution, that they are creating a better world just by speculating on initial coin offerings. Buterin, meanwhile, who actually created an important thing, is a lot more skeptical, arguing that ICO valuations are "far ahead of what this space has actually accomplished for the world" and making fun of crypto zillionaires:“It’s the luck of the draw, where everyone who won the draw seems to feel like they deserved it for being smarter,” rants Buterin. He impersonates a bitcoin bull: “I was loyal and I was virtuous and I held through and therefore I deserve to have my five mansions and 23 lambos!” We laugh.Meanwhile here, from last week, is a profile of Mark Karpelès, the guy who ran the Mt. Gox exchange when it was hacked and lost all its Bitcoins. It filed for bankruptcy and then, in an odd twist, found a lot of its Bitcoins again. Not all of them -- investors still had substantial Bitcoin losses -- but enough of them to more than pay off all of the investors' fiat claims: When Mt. Gox entered liquidation, claims on it were converted into yen (and Bitcoin was worth $483 at the time); the Bitcoins it then found are now worth way more than the total amount of all of those claims. "The fact that you have a bankruptcy where the only asset that it owns goes up by 5,000%, that’s pretty unprecedented," says a lawyer. So Mt. Gox might go un-bankrupt:Richard Folsom, an American who worked for Bain & Co. in Tokyo before founding one of the first private equity shops in Japan, hired the biggest Japanese law firm and came up with a plan: What if Mt. Gox wasn’t technically bankrupt anymore? Their petition for “civil rehabilitation” of Mt. Gox, filed in November, is now pending before the Tokyo District Court; an outside examiner recommended in its favor in February.Elsewhere in crypto, Gary Gensler, the former head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, thinks that Ripple and Ether are probably securities. And Savedroid, an ICO that said it had stolen everyone's money, apparently hasn't stolen everyone's money, but was just doing a prank "meant to teach the cryptocurrency community a lesson about how easy it would have been for them to scam their investors." Look, if you invested in a company that would do that, you deserve to actually have all your money stolen, is my view on the matter. Oh and we talked on Friday about blockchain for shipping. I pointed out the problem that "Rather than all the big shippers coming together to agree on and build a vast new platform for the industry to use, each of them seems to be building its own system and hoping that everyone else adopts it." But reader Mike Phillips noted by email that there is some precedent for that:One point in the various shipping blockchains' defense is that this is also basically how the adoption of containers worked out, with many shipping companies having different container specs (i.e. non-compatible fasteners, different sizes, etc.) until they eventually got munged together into one winner. The full promise of containerization wasn't really able to be unlocked until that point, though there were still other gains made along the way. But in general, it makes sense for everyone in the space to want to make a play for their standard to be the default, since it will be built around their business, and make it easier for their business to operate on it (alternatively, people could guess at what the winner will look like, and try to conform to that). It's true that, generally, you're at least as likely to create a universal standard by starting with competition as you are by starting with coordination.Oh man.You never want to see your boss celebrate like this when you quit:Greenhill & Co., the boutique investment bank, said it’s losing a team of bankers -- and that it’s good for the firm’s bottom line.The real estate-focused primary capital advisory team “has been high quality but only marginally profitable,” Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok told staff Sunday in a memo obtained by Bloomberg. Fourteen professionals are leaving, forfeiting deferred compensation, which will provide a “significant favorable impact” to pretax profit this year, he said. Look I am going to pull back the curtain here a bit. Every day I write Money Stuff and then I tweet a link to it. The tweet is always some quote from Money Stuff repurposed to describe the newsletter itself. "TurboTax is an evil, parasitic product that exists entirely because taxes are confusing and hard to file," wrote Dylan Matthews last week, to pick an example at random, and I quoted him in Money Stuff, and then I tweeted "This newsletter is an evil, parasitic product that exists entirely because finance is confusing and hard to understand." It is all fairly straightforward, a little joke that I have enjoyed for a few years and that I hope some of my Twitter followers have enjoyed too. Occasionally it goes awry, in that I rarely write the newsletter with the tweets in mind, and every so often I finish it and then realize there is no funny quote to serve as the basis for the tweet and have to stretch a bit. Other times, though, I will be writing the newsletter and find myself quoting something and thinking "well that's the tweet sorted," and that is always a satisfying feeling.The point of this meandering story is that today I will be tweeting "This newsletter has been high quality but only marginally profitable," and also that that would be an honorable epitaph on anyone's Wall Street career, and frankly on anyone's tombstone. "He was high quality but only marginally profitable" is a description that I rather aspire to. So congratulations to the 14 Greenhill real-estate people did good work, but who nonetheless helped their employer more by quitting. Things happen.UBS's Freshly Combined Global Wealth Management Unit Disappoints. Mifid II forces fund managers into sharp research cuts. It’s a Scary Time to Be Trading Wall Street’s Fear Index. Zelle, the Banks’ Answer to Venmo, Proves Vulnerable to Fraud. "Europe’s banks have raised half of their market value in new equity over the past decade." Walmart Is Close to $12 Billion-Plus Deal for Flipkart. Tencent Music Plans IPO; Valuation Could Exceed $25 Billion. Wanted: New Home for a Lot of Russian Aluminum. Don't keep all your retirement savings in your employer's stock! Moose goes to dog park. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-23T20:59:11.582Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-23/ether-ripple-may-be-securities-former-cftc-head-gensler-says
Tokens sold in initial coin offerings have come under increased scrutiny from U.S. regulators, but some of the biggest cryptocurrencies aren’t necessarily off the hook.Gary Gensler, the former chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said that government officials should take a closer look at the largest coins by market capitalization, not just at tokens sold in ICOs. Ethereum’s Ether and Ripple’s XRP could probably be classified as securities, Gensler said.“The SEC and regulators need to bring clarity,” Gensler said at MIT Technology Review’s Business of Blockchain conference on Monday. Many cryptocurrenciers “are operating outside of U.S. laws.”One of the ways regulators determine if an asset is a security is with the so-called Howey Test. For Gensler, buying Ripple’s XRP and Ether meets the requirements of the test as there’s an investment of money in a common enterprise, and the expectation of profit which comes from the efforts of a third party. The common enterprise for Ripple would be Ripple Labs, and for ether it would be the Ethereum Foundation, Gensler said.“There’s a strong case, particularly for Ripple,” Gensler said, as Ether is more decentralized.A Ripple representative said in an email, “we don’t believe that XRP should be classified as a security. XRP does not give its owners an interest or stake in Ripple and they are not paid dividends. XRP exists independent of Ripple, was created before the company and will exist after it. Ripple has always promoted XRP as a useful digital asset for enterprise payments because it’s faster, more scalable and more inexpensive than other digital assets. That utility exists completely separate from Ripple."The Ethereum Foundation didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.A classification by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as securities would subject the coins and exchanges offering them to greater scrutiny. Most cryptocurrency trading platforms based in the U.S. which offer Ether, do so even as they’re not SEC regulated securities exchanges. Ripple hasn’t been able to list its coin on major U.S. crypto exchanges.Bitcoin, Litecoin and Bitcoin Cash probably wouldn’t be classified as securities as they weren’t sold in ICOs, said Gensler, who is now a senior lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The CFTC has said virtual currencies, like Bitcoin, are commodities.QuickTake Q&A: What’s an ICO? Like an IPO But With Digital CoinsIf the SEC decides that any of the cryptocurrencies are securities, then its issuers will probably end up in court, Gensler said. The SEC could decide in nine months to a year, or 2 to 5 years at the longest, he said.Most coins sold in ICOs are both so-called utility tokens and securities, Gensler said. Increased regulation would probably have a cooling effect on ICO sales, but would be positive to the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency sector, he said.Gensler said he wants cryptocurrencies and blockchain projects to thrive as they can enhance the financial system.Blockchain technology can “lower cost and lower risk,” he said. “The question is how we go forward.”

2018-04-25T01:58:32.317Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/crypto-billionaire-sued-by-sequoia-after-funding-deal-goes-awry
A legal dispute between Zhao Changpeng, founder of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, and a unit of Sequoia Capital is offering a rare glimpse into one of the digital-asset industry’s fastest-growing startups.Sequoia sued Zhao over a funding deal gone awry, according to Hong Kong court filings on March 26 and April 24. The filings shed light on Zhao’s interactions with big-name venture capital firms and reveal details about how they’ve valued Binance, the exchange that Zhao started just nine months ago.The trading platform’s meteoric rise has been one of the virtual currency industry’s most remarkable growth stories, landing Zhao on the cover of Forbes magazine and helping him amass a personal fortune that he claims is worth as much as $2 billion. Binance has also attracted scrutiny from regulators, who’ve been clamping down on digital-asset exchanges around the world amid concern that the venues may be flouting securities laws.Read more: Crypto’s Billionaire Trading King Has Suddenly Run Into ProblemsAccording to the Hong Kong court filings, Zhao and Sequoia began negotiating terms of an investment in Binance in August. The deal would have given Sequoia a nearly 11 percent stake and valued the exchange at about $80 million.Talks continued over the next few months, the court documents show, a period in which cryptocurrency prices and transaction values soared to all-time highs. But in mid-December, as Bitcoin traded at a record near $20,000, the negotiations broke down.Sequoia sues Binance founder Zhao Changpeng after deal taks go awrySource: BloombergOn Dec. 14, Zhao’s team told Sequoia that Binance’s existing shareholders thought their proposed deal undervalued the exchange. Around the same time, Zhao was approached by another VC firm, IDG Capital, with an offer that would have injected two rounds of funding into Binance at vastly higher valuations: $400 million and $1 billion, respectively.At issue is whether Zhao’s talks with IDG Capital violated his exclusivity agreements with Sequoia. While Sequoia and Zhao are planning to settle their dispute in arbitration, the disagreement became public after Sequoia turned to Hong Kong’s High Court and secured a temporary injunction barring Zhao from negotiating with other investors. Zhao didn’t respond to requests for comment, while a spokeswoman for Binance said the firm couldn’t immediately comment. Menlo Park, California-based Sequoia, which has backed companies including Google, Airbnb Inc. and Dropbox Inc., declined to comment. IDG said in response to questions from Bloomberg News that it hasn’t invested in Binance and has no relationship with the firm.Zhao has previously told Bloomberg News that Binance doesn’t need outside money and that he’s only interested in partnering with VC firms if they can help the exchange work with regulators to secure operating licenses.He has said Binance is conservatively valued at about $3 billion and that the company earned $200 million in its second quarter of existence, while declining to share the exchange’s financial statements or provide proof of his personal wealth. Zhao keeps the locations of Binance’s offices and servers secret, though he has previously said that the exchange is based in Hong Kong. Last month, Zhao announced that Binance was setting up operations on the European island nation of Malta.Read more: How Malta Became a Hub of the Cryptocurrency WorldBinance hosted about $3.8 billion of cryptocurrency trades over the past 24 hours, according to Coinmarketcap.com. While that’s the most among fee-charging exchanges tracked by the data aggregation site, turnover on Binance has slumped about 70 percent from its peak amid a broad selloff in digital assets. Bitcoin, the world’s most popular cryptocurrency, has lost about half its value since hitting an all-time high in mid-December. — With assistance by Yuji Nakamura, Lulu Yilun Chen, and Justina Lee

2018-04-20T13:46:02.956Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-20/bitcoin-positioned-for-2018-s-first-back-to-back-week-of-gains
Bitcoin bulls are celebrating the virtues of the biggest cryptocurrency again.The digital coin gained as much as 4 percent Friday, putting it on pace for its first back-to-back week of gains this year. The mini-rally is helping to ease the pain from the more than 50 percent loss in the first quarter that followed last year’s 1,400 percent surge.The increase has bought the gains over the two-week period to almost 29 percent. Other crypto tokens rallied Friday, with Ripple jumping as much as 19 percent, Ethereum climbing 7.5 percent and Litecoin adding 4 percent. As it is often with Bitcoin, traders are citing multiple reasons for the recovery.One of the most frequent heard this week is the end of tax selling season in the U.S., meaning investors are done selling crypto to pay off outstanding balances. Others point to a squeeze against a record short position on Bitcoin. Gains may also be result of larger investors entering the market.“Tax selling is over, larger hedge funds have entered the market with deep pockets and strong hands, all positive signs,” said John Spallanzani, a portfolio manager at Miller Value Partners, who is optimistic about the digital currency’s outlook, calling for still higher prices.— With assistance by Joe Weisenthal

2018-04-25T11:00:19.844Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-25/san-francisco-will-get-over-scooterpocalypse
Hi everyone, it's Ellen. I confess: I’m loving the squabbling going on in San Francisco over electric scooters.Ever since St. Patrick's Day, the city has been dealing with a contagion of the transportation rentals, scattered downtown and on main thoroughfares. Three startups are responsible: Bird, LimeBike and Spin. (Also responsible: the venture firms that have invested $255 million in these companies, most of it in the past two months.)The scooters' sudden arrival has stirred up a lot of drama. San Franciscans have come up with a long list of gripes: tripping over scooters, the danger to pedestrians, dangers to riders, abandoned scooters, or blaming the whole thing on unidentified "tech bros." City officials, eager to do something, are sending cease-and-desist letters and are planning to require permits soon, while impounding scooters that they say are parked illegally. Observers declare themselves pro- or anti-scooter on Twitter. There’s angry protest art. Some vandals get their message across using feces.One reason it's hard to tear my eyes away from the Scooterpocalypse: there's so many of them. LimeBike says it has about 200 scooters in San Francisco. Bird and Spin both say they have "a couple hundred."The startups maintain they're saving the world from hulking, human-crushing, gas-guzzling cars. Critics of the backlash lecture that cars are "dockless" too. It seems like there are almost as many fingers pointed in blame as there are scooters on the street. San Francisco isn't the first city to have its residents wake up one morning and see these scooters parked askew on street corners, toppled across sidewalks like dominoes, or zipping passengers through crowds.Lime launched its scooters in Austin this month because Bird did first; Bird launched in San Francisco because Lime held a "pop-up" with 100 scooters in March. When a rival swoops in, the companies say they have to act or they’ll lose market share, even if they are trying to seek proper permits. "In Austin, we had been in conversation with the city for months when Bird moved in," said Jack Song, a LimeBike spokesman. "To see our progress and be taken by a bad player in the industry, that was hard for us."By comparison, the roll-out of electric-assist bicycles here has been relatively peaceful. Jump Bikes is the only dockless bike company in San Francisco, and supply is capped at 250 bikes. While not everyone is happy about their arrival, I've yet to see one smeared with poop. (It also doesn't hurt that Jump, which Uber bought this month, requires the bike be locked to something upright so it doesn't fall over.)As much as I've relished watching the scooter brouhaha unfold, I predict it will probably die down in six months with one winner. Venture capitalists often write checks with a herd mentality, but they won’t keep funding losers. I remember writing my first story about Lyft in 2013 because everyone was curious about (and annoyed by) the sudden appearance of cars with fuzzy pink mustaches. Now, ride-hailing is here to stay and no big deal (and mercifully, the ‘staches are smaller). Scooters, too, will become an everyday part of the transportation fabric and San Franciscans will just find something new to rile them up.This article also ran in Bloomberg Technology’s Fully Charged newsletter. Sign up here.High-tech fasting? Silicon Valley has discovered the latest diet fad of eating less, and wants in on some of the action. Another take on Google’s earnings: a company that’s playing catch-up. Binance, the embattled bitcoin exchange, is dealing with another headache. Founder Zhao Changpeng is being sued in Hong Kong court by a unit of Sequoia Capital. The final robotics frontier: Japan’s Shimizu is ready to deploy robots to construct tall buildings in Japan.Hook ‘em early. Kids are coding in India, with Apple’s blessing.

2018-04-17T19:49:05.432Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-17/bitcoin-s-sudden-drop-snaps-seven-straight-days-of-crypto-gains
Are Bitcoin bulls getting nervous?The largest cryptocurrency declined suddenly this afternoon absent any easily identified catalysts, putting the price on a pace to finish lower for the first time in seven days. Keep in mind that the decline was only as much as 1.6 percent, the biggest intraday drop since April 12.Cryptocurrency Exchanges Get ‘Fact-Finding’ Letter from New YorkCryptocurrency Exchange Kraken Pulls Out of Japan, Citing CostsBarclays Is Said to Sound Out Clients About Trading Crypto

2018-04-18T11:47:24.528Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/bitcoin-miners-facing-a-shakeout-as-profitability-becomes-harder
Bitcoin is at an inflection point.Even with the price back above $8,000, many of the so-called miners that perform the complex calculations to generate the digital currency are at risk of turning unprofitable. If prices drop below that threshold again for an extended period, there will likely be a swifter consolidation to industrial-scale mining. That could knock out the last guy-in-a-dorm-room operations and leave holders of the currency vulnerable to the dictates of the big miners.“It’s totally different this year than last year,” Silicon Valley venture capitalist Bill Tai said in an interview. “The bitcoin mining industry was this mysterious dark cottage industry, and it’s about to grow up and about to have elements of institutional scalability at all levels."Smaller miners will drop out, and only five to 10 of the largest will survive and be profitable, said Tai, who serves as chairman of Hut 8 Mining Corp., the capital financing arm in North America for Amsterdam-based Bitfury Group Ltd., one of the biggest makers of crypto-mining equipment. When the price of Bitcoin approached $19,000 last year, Bitfury had to turn some customers away as $1.9 billion of orders streamed in, he said.More concentration could also hold a lot of sway over Bitcoin’s price. Miners hold between 20 percent and 30 percent of all Bitcoins, according to Lucas Nuzzi, a senior analyst at Digital Asset Research. Bitfury alone has mined more than 1 million Bitcoins, Tai said. The company has already sold coins to defray operating expenses. If miners are forced to sell more, that could depress Bitcoin’s price.With mining power -- so-called hashrate -- aggregated in fewer hands, that also increases the risk that a few miners could band together to execute a so-called 51-percent attack -- where they would control enough of the transactions to dictate changes in the development of the blockchain to suit their preferences.QuickTake: All About Bitcoin, Blockchain and the Crypto World"It has the potential of being dangerous from a security standpoint, since a single entity could use its power in terms of hashrate to disrupt the network," Nuzzi said.The largest miners are getting bigger. Industry leader Bitmain, which runs China’s two largest bitcoin-mining collectives, has opened offices in Switzerland and the U.S. and is exploring expansion opportunities worldwide. Bitfury will be raising more than $100 million in the next six months to produce and sell portable mining server farms, each costing at least $2 million, Tai said. It’s also opening up its own, additional farms in the Middle East and Africa, and expanding in Canada. Bitfury is profitable at current prices largely due to its economies of scale, Tai said.Unlike smaller miners, which buy hardware from other manufacturers, Bitmain and Bitfury design and make their own chips and machines. The large players also can place huge orders for parts and even buy electricity at a discount.“We can buy and source orders of magnitude more," Tai said. "We can buy silicon in large quantities and commit to the electricity grid in chunk sizes. We have the cash to make the deposits and set them up." The company is in discussions to connect to a nuclear power plant that’s going online in about 18 months, he said.Many smaller miners are trying to cut costs by relocating to locations such as Springfield, Missouri, where buildings -- abandoned factories and car dealerships -- can be had for as little as $1 a square foot. Electricity can cost between $3,224 and more than $9,000 to mine a single Bitcoin, depending on the state, according to Crescent Electric Supply Company’s estimates.Power-Hungry Crypto Mines Clean Up as Cost of Electricity GrowsAt current prices, though, all that may not help the smaller Bitcoin miners that much. Startup Bcause, which hosts some 11,000 mining machines in Viginia Beach, Virginia, for clients. Its customers likely only make a profit, once they’ve covered capital investments, with Bitcoin above $9,000 to $10,000, founder Tom Flake said.For now, Flake and his customers are betting that Bitcoin’s price will rise. Having only opened its facility in February, Bcause is already overbooked until September and is building another facility, as speculators continue to count on higher prices, he said.But even Flake expects to see miner consolidation in the next 18 to 24 months."We’ve returned to some level of rationality," Flake said.For more on bitcoin, check out the Decrypted podcast: 

2018-04-24T20:30:12.840Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-24/the-daily-prophet-can-t-blame-3-bond-yield-for-this-stock-rout
There's been a lot of handwringing lately over what would happen to stocks once benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields reached 3 percent. Well, yields breached that level on Tuesday for the first time since January 2014, but that wasn't really why the S&p 500 Index fell the most since April 6. The reason is more disturbing than the prospect for higher borrowing costs.Although equities started out the day in the black, and they did wobble once 10-year yields reached 3.001 percent, it was an unexpected announcement from Caterpillar, the world’s biggest maker of construction and mining equipment and often viewed as a bellwether of the global economy, that caused the rally to reverse. Caterpillar's first-quarter earnings released early in the morning beat estimates, but company executives later said on a call with analysts and investors that those results “will be the high watermark for the year.” Therein lies the problem for the stock market. Everybody knew coming into earnings season that profits would be strong, but to justify the lofty price-to-earnings levels that stocks were trading at early in the  year, companies would need to be equally bullish in their outlooks. But that is not happening. Based on the companies that have reported so far, earnings-per-share rose by 17.8 percent from a year earlier, above early-season targets of 16.5 percent. But, strategists at Bloomberg Intelligence note, estimates for the next four quarters have declined."S&P 500 stocks have offered a lukewarm greeting to red-hot earnings, with outlooks somewhat chillier," the BI strategists wrote in a research note. "A turnaround in analyst-estimate revisions is likely necessary to get stocks moving in a positive direction again."IT'S BOND ARMAGEDDON -- OR MAYBE NOTAlthough it remains to be seen whether 10-year Treasury yields at 3 percent will have a punitive impact on the global economy and markets, they do serve to underscore how borrowing costs for governments, companies and consumers have risen quite substantially, and not just this year. The yield on the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index rose to 3.31 percent on Monday, up from the post-crisis low of 1.56 percent in 2012 and the highest since mid-2010. The U.S. government's interest expense so far in fiscal 2018 ending in October is $241.7 billion, up from $223 billion at the same point in fiscal 2017 and from $191.8 billion in 2016. The big question for investors is whether the economy is strong enough to withstand these higher rates. After all, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta's widely-followed GDPNow, which aims to track growth in real time, shows the economy is likely expanding at 2 percent rate, which marks a big deceleration from the past three quarters. Although government data released Tuesday show that new-home sales increased in March to a four-month high in the face of the highest mortgage rates in four years, some economists say that was mainly a reflection of the dearth in supply of existing homes, forcing homeowners to buy newly built houses. If the economy is more a reflection of Caterpillar than home sales, then maybe yields might be near a peak for the year.    BAD NEWS IS GOOD NEWSChina's leaders gave their strongest signal since 2015 that growth in the world’s second-largest economy could slow. And yet, Chinese stocks rallied Tuesday by the most in two months, with the CSI 300 Index gaining 2.05 percent. Investors were encouraged by a statement issued by state media Monday following a Politburo meeting led by President Xi Jinping where policy makers mentioned the need to boost domestic demand for the first time since 2015, and dropped a reference to deleveraging. In other words, the government is willing to ease its tightening campaign to avoid an overly sharp economic slowdown, according to Bloomberg News' Sofia Horta e Costa. “The Politburo meeting sends a signal that China may roll out fiscal stimulus and supportive monetary policies to resolve financial risk and stabilize markets,” Ken Chen, a Shanghai-based analyst with KGI Securities, told Bloomberg News. All industry groups on the broader CSI 300 Index rose, with property developers and banks leading the advance. While the rally helped patch some of the damage inflicted on Chinese stocks this year, the country’s benchmarks are still among the world’s worst performers since their January peaks. The shift in tone is “a sign that China is paying attention to the downward pressure in the economy,” Han Wang, chief macro analyst at Industrial Securities, wrote in a research note Tuesday.ALUMINUM ROLLER COASTERIt sure is fun watching the aluminum market these days. After soaring as much as 37 percent in the span of two weeks amid the U.S. sanctions imposed on Russian aluminum producer United Co. Rusal, the price of aluminum has since crashed 20 percent, and was poised for its biggest two-day loss in almost three decades as supply worries eased after the U.S. softened its position on sanctions against Rusal. The U.S. Treasury said Monday that it would provide sanction relief if Oleg Deripaska relinquished control of Rusal. In addition, the deadline for companies to wind down dealings with the aluminum producer was extended by almost five months. Washington’s change of tack follows two weeks of chaos in global metal markets after the initial imposition of the curbs on April 6, according to Bloomberg News' Eddie van der Walt. Positioning on the LME swung from 100,000 lots short to 100,000 lots long in 10 days -- the biggest-ever change over such a period, according to Matt France, Marex Spectron Group’s head of institutional sales for metals in Asia. While the U.S.’s latest statement signals that refined metal produced by Rusal could soon be back in the market, other uncertainties persist, such as the question of the flow of alumina. The main raw material used to make the refined metal surged last week to a record $800 a ton amid supply tightness.CRYPTO COMEBACKCryptocurrencies are enjoying a strong comeback from a rout at the end of last year that saw market leader Bitcoin drop from about $20,000 to just under $6,000 in less than two months. Bitcoin is back above $9,000 and the broad market for cryptocurrencies has gained 75 percent this month. One reason for the strength centers on speculation that coming regulation may not be as stiff as first envisioned when the market crashed. “The backdrop is less negative,” Marc Ostwald, global strategist at ADM Investor Services in London, told Bloomberg News. “The noise from regulators has been far less destructive in recent weeks than since the end of last year, and we haven’t had a big theft from an exchange recently.” The digital coin surge in April coincided with many of the world’s stock and bond markets struggling for direction, according to Bloomberg News' Todd White. Traders in traditional assets have had to factor in higher yields and inflation forecasts, as well as the shifting narrative of the U.S. and China trade dispute and tensions between America and Russia. “A lot of people who trade Bitcoin do it off technicals, the same as any commodity, like wheat or oil,” Ostwald said.TEA LEAVESIt's not often that an emerging-market central bank monetary policy decision garners the spotlight, but Turkey is an exception. That's because President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been at odds with the central bank. He consistently calls for lower rates to give the economy a boost. On Wednesday, though, policy makers are likely to do the opposite and raise rates for the first time this year. The odds of a rate hike have risen since Central Bank Governor Murat Cetinkaya said this month he would raise borrowing costs “if needed” to steady inflation and anchor a currency that has the potential to swing in the weeks leading up to the June 24 presidential elections, according to Bloomberg News' Lin Noueihed and Selcan Hacaoglu. Last week, Erdogan called nationwide elections more than a year earlier than scheduled in what analysts say is an effort to consolidate his position at the pinnacle of power. A victory would allow him to complete the transformation of the political system agreed in a referendum a year ago, eliminating the post of prime minister and weakening the role of parliament to concentrate power in an executive presidency.If you’d like to get The Daily Prophet in e-mail form, right in your inbox, please subscribe to this link. Thanks!DON'T MISSOil's Surge Is Mainly About Demand, Not OPEC: Jason SchenkerMarkets Better Prepare for Stagflation: Danielle DiMartino BoothEmerging-Market Investors Have Memory Issues: Desmond LachmanThe IMF Exaggerated for a Good Cause: Ferdinando GiuglianoThe Rusal Case Is a Failure of U.S. Sanctions: Leonid Bershidsky      Professionals offering actionable insights on markets, the economy and monetary policy. Contributors may have a stake in the areas they write about.    

2018-04-19T13:10:07.864Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-04-19/sweden-s-very-own-bitcoin-what-could-possibly-go-wrong
The finance industry's attitude to automation and technical innovation resembles the old song lyric: "Everybody wants to go to heaven, but nobody wants to die."Bank executives love to warn of robots replacing humans across the industry, but basic IT management often seems beyond them. The blockchain and digital currencies are the future, they tell us, but no-one seems quite sure what to do with them or whether they really want them.So it's unsurprising that central banks have decided to take up the crypto-running -- or are at least promising to. Guardians of monetary policy from Sweden to the U.K. have raised the idea of issuing digital currency. And it's starting to unnerve private bankers who, it turns out, quite like the way things work today.While a publicly available e-pound or e-krona would help draw support away from stateless cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, bank CEOs know it might also stop customers depositing funds with their own firms. That's certainly the fear in Sweden, where bankers are lobbying against the central bank's idea of wading into the retail market with its own digital money. For Swedish financiers, it would be just another potential suck on their business to sit alongside Bitcoin and the emerging rivalry from big Silicon Valley firms.Bitcoin's price has cooled this year but policymakers are still grappling with what to make of digital moneySource: Bloomberg Still, they may be worrying about nothing. There's little to suggest that central bankers will be any better at radical change than the lenders they oversee.The first question is deciding what a digital currency would actually solve. Sweden's chief preoccupation seems to be that its citizens are falling out of love with notes and coins, preferring instead to use cards or electronic payments. But if people are already happy to pay this way, and are shunning cash, why bother coming up with a digital alternative to cash? It might rein in the power of the banks a little, but it will also be a monumental technical feat to devise an e-currency that's as handy as notes and coins. And all that for a small minority of cash-lovers.Sweden's use of cash payments in the retail sector as a proportion of overall paymentsSource: RiksbankThe second problem is deciding whether this is worth the risk to financial stability. If a sovereign digital currency is successful, what does it look like at a time of crisis? Will customers flee banks and take refuge in digital assets? That's a pretty nightmarish prospect for a central banker, given the risk of a credit crunch and heavy financial losses. The Bank for International Settlements has warned of such "digital bank runs" and urged careful consideration before launching projects.The final difficulty would be central banks becoming more like banks -- with all the regulation and risk that entails. They would need more departments, more staff and more resources to combat money laundering and cyber-attacks. A public digital currency would need branches or information centers. It might require a whole new approach to tracking and taxing citizens. Seeing central bankers cope with all this might be a source of schadenfreude for the banks, who've been grumbling about compliance for years. But it would be an operational and financial nightmare for all those involved.Everybody wants a more efficient banking system that protects the public. But pinning your hopes on central bankers is a fool's game.To contact the author of this story:      Lionel Laurent in    London at llaurent2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               James Boxell at jboxell@bloomberg.net

2018-04-23T21:04:49.061Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-23/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jgcqcoku
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereThe dollar’s winning streak reaches the longest since December as its correlation with Treasury yields continues to show signs of revival. And trade worries ease as the U.S. backs off hard-line stances with China and Russia’s United Co. Rusal. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.The greenback rose to the highest level since January partly on the back of rising Treasury yields, as the benchmark 10-year note got within half a basis point of 3 percent before paring losses. U.S. stocks declined for a third day, with a slump in shares of technology companies weighing on major indexes. Crude posted a late-session comeback to finish in the the green. The Mexican peso paced losses among major currencies as investors begin to accept that the next president is likely to be the populist firebrand they feared.The U.S. softened its position on sanctions against Russian metals giant United Co. Rusal, sparking a record plunge in aluminum prices. For the first time, the U.S. Treasury discussed a path for lifting the sanctions on Rusal, saying it would provide relief if Oleg Deripaska relinquished control. It also extended the deadline for companies to wind down dealings with the Russian aluminum producer by almost five months. Aluminum prices fell as much as 9.4 percent, the most ever. The move comes on the heels of  comments from U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that he’s considering a trip to China amid an ongoing trade dispute with Beijing.Compared with a month ago, only half as many economists now expect the Bank of Japan to adjust its monetary policy this year -- and none expect action at Friday’s meeting. Only seven of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect any change this year, down from 14 in March. Most see no change until at least April 2019.  Vanguard Group amassed $5.2 trillion of client assets and revolutionized the U.S. investment industry by offering low-cost funds to millions of Americans. Now it wants to do something similar in China, even if the strategy takes years to bear fruit. The firm is laying the groundwork for a China expansion made easier by the nation’s opening to foreign asset managers. Vanguard is on track to more than double the size of its Shanghai office this year and may seek approval to sell products to wealthy investors as a first step before seeking a foreign-owned mutual fund license when regulators allow it in 2021, said Charles Lin, the firm’s China head.Bitcoin Cash is the hottest cryptocurrency around right now for more reasons than you may imagine. The offshoot of the biggest digital token has surged about 25 percent since Friday, in part because Antpool, one of the largest mining groups, is “burning” a portion of the coins it receives in exchange for solving the complete mathematical puzzles that serve as the backbone of the network, potentially reducing supply and driving up the value. The maneuver is the latest salvo in an escalating battle between backers of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash, which was spun off last year. Through a war of words playing out on Twitter and Facebook, some of the largest holders of both cryptocurrencies are attempting to influence the coins’ prices after seeing significant losses since last year.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds

2018-04-19T16:00:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-19/as-bitcoin-plunged-these-crypto-hedge-funds-kept-making-money
Bitcoin’s terrible start to 2018 is highlighting the appeal of cryptocurrency hedge funds that make money in both bull and bear markets.Funds specializing in virtual currency market making and arbitrage strategies delivered first-quarter gains even as their mostly bullish peers lost 40 percent on average. That’s a big reversal from last year, when digital assets soared and market-making funds lagged far behind their long-biased counterparts.Pivot Digital Trading-2, managed by Hong Kong-based Amber AI Group, generated some of the biggest gains among cryptocurrency funds that avoid directional bets. It rose 4.3 percent in March to bring its first-quarter return to 30 percent, according to the firm. Market Neutral Liquidity SP-Institutional, domiciled in the Cayman Islands, earned 5.6 percent in the first quarter, said Cedric Jeanson of BitSpread Group, investment adviser to the portfolio.The results suggest some managers are finding ways to profit from wild swings in cryptocurrencies without having to predict whether the coins will rise or fall. Such tactics may appeal to investors who want exposure to digital assets without their extreme volatility.As a group, cryptocurrency hedge funds are still highly correlated to the market. A Eurekahedge index for the category posted its biggest three-month slump on record last quarter as Bitcoin sank more than 50 percent. The index soared 1,709 percent in 2017, when Bitcoin jumped about 1,400 percent.Among funds that lost money was Silver 8 Partners. It dropped 25 percent in March and 32 percent in the first quarter, according to a commentary sent to investors. Silver 8 invests in digital assets, along with fintech, blockchain and machine learning companies."High levels of uncertainty and low market liquidity make investments in blockchain-related assets volatile," the firm said in a newsletter. "They tend to overreact to cycles of euphoria and pessimism, where the market price itself acts as a catalyst for further momentum."The fund has made more than 1,000 percent for investors since its inception in 2016, including a more than 750 percent gain in 2017.While funds from Amber AI and BitSpread tend to not post such high returns during boom times, they provide investors with some protection when prices of digital assets fall.Market-neutral crypto hedge funds fared better in 2018Sources: Companies and investors2018 returns for the first quarterRead more on crypto hedge funds that made a killing last yearPDT2, as the Amber AI fund is otherwise known, trades the 25 largest digital currencies on exchanges including Huobi, OKEX, Bitfinex, Binance, Kraken and BitStamp, said Tiantian Kullander, one of the four former Morgan Stanley traders who started the firm with a one-time programmer at Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.The fund began trading early this year and oversees about $25 million, said Kullander. Its quantitative trading strategies include market-making, short-term trend following and exploiting pricing discrepancies between different currency pairs and exchanges.Market Neutral Liquidity SP-Institutional, with more than $100 million of assets under management, makes markets for currencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum and Ripple, BitSpread’s Jeanson said.

2018-04-23T13:36:31.376Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-23/goldman-sachs-hires-crypto-trader-schmidt-to-lead-digital-assets
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. hired Justin Schmidt as head of digital asset markets to help clients gain exposure to cryptocurrencies.Schmidt, 38, joined the securities division in New York as a vice president, said bank spokeswoman Tiffany Galvin-Cohen. He previously worked at quantitative trading firms Seven Eight Capital LLC and WorldQuant LLC and has computer science degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, according to his LinkedIn profile. Tearsheet, a financial industry newsletter, reported the hiring earlier Monday.Goldman Sachs has been a leader in helping clients navigate crypto markets, and was among the first Wall Street firms to clear Bitcoin futures offered by Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc. The company was considering whether to start a trading desk to make markets in digital currencies, people familiar with the effort said in December.“In response to client interest in various digital products, we are exploring how best to serve them in the space,” Galvin-Cohen said in a statement. “We have not reached a conclusion on the scope of our digital asset offering.”Schmidt didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.

2018-04-23T14:11:04.988Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-23/ban-on-cryptocurrency-transactions-imposed-by-iran-central-bank
Iran’s central bank prohibited domestic financial institutions from handling virtual currencies, citing money-laundering concerns, as it seeks to ramp up control over the nation’s currency markets.“All branches of banks, credit institutions and currency exchanges should stay clear of any sale or purchase of these currencies and avoid undertakings that facilitate or promote such currencies,” the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported, citing the Central Bank statement. “Action will be taken against those who contravene the regulations.”While many of the world’s monetary authorities have warned of the risks in digital coins, the step of banning them is uncommon. In Iran, the central bank had in recent months asked Iranians to avoid turning to cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin, describing them as “unreliable.” But this week’s announcement is a more drastic move and coincides with authorities working to control both the official and unauthorized currency markets.Iran unified its official and unregulated rates earlier this month to avert a free fall of its national currency, which breached 60,000 to the U.S. dollar. The rial’s weakening came amid Iranians’ fear that the U.S. may exit from a multiparty nuclear deal next month, leading to the return of economic sanctions lifted as part of the 2015 agreement.Iran was cut off from the global banking system for several years after it was banned from using the money-transfer messaging system SWIFT as part of sanctions over its controversial nuclear program.Despite the lifting of some sanctions including the ban on SWIFT when the nuclear deal was implemented in 2016, most international banks are shying away from dealing with Iran from fear of running into remaining U.S. restrictions and being penalized.

2018-04-24T14:36:01.689Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-24/index-standards-and-listing-standards
Indexes and governance.What stocks can you invest in? You can go buy the stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq. We live in a global economy so you can buy the stocks listed on the London Stock Exchange or the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Listing is not a prerequisite, though; you can buy public stocks that aren't listed anywhere and trade over the counter on the "pink sheets." And even being public is not necessarily a requirement: In the U.S., exemptions to the registration requirements allow people to buy stock in private companies if they are "accredited investors" (basically: have a lot of money) or if the stock offering is small enough. If Uber Technologies Inc., or your local hardware store, or your favorite podcast, wants to raise money, and you have money, you might be able to work out a deal.What stocks can big institutional investors invest in? Well, in the broadest sense, at least as many stocks as you can. U.S. listed stocks and foreign listed stocks and over-the-counter stocks and private stocks (big institutions are normally "accredited") and whatever. In practice, lots of institutions have restrictions on what they can buy, sometimes imposed by law but often imposed by their own charters or rules or advertising. If you run a U.S. technology mutual fund you might find yourself dabbling in private-company stock offerings, or you might not -- you might have rules against buying private-company shares -- but in any case you are unlikely to spend a lot of time on the Nigerian Stock Exchange.What stocks can index funds invest in? The stocks in the index that they track.The rising popularity of indexing sometimes makes it easy to conflate "the index" with "the market." If you buy a Standard & Poor's 500 index fund, you are generally doing that not because you have a carefully considered view that the companies in the S&P 500 index will outperform other companies, but because you want to invest passively -- just buy all the stocks and not worry about picking between them -- and buying an index fund is the way to do that. With broad indexes that is a reasonable assumption: If you invest in a CRSP US Total Market Index fund or a Russell 3000 Index fund, you really are getting the large bulk of publicly traded U.S. stocks. Of course you are not getting Uber, or your local hardware store, or your favorite podcast, or any U.K. or Nigerian stocks, or any bonds or gold or Bitcoins for that matter, in that portfolio. But it is passive enough; you are making the active decision to allocate some of your money to publicly traded U.S. stocks, and then refusing, as much as possible, to make any further decisions within that allocation. Just put the money in all those stocks.Even so, index providers and index funds are making some decisions for you about exactly which stocks you will invest in. But they are not the only ones. A broad index might include only stocks listed on U.S. stock exchanges, which means that the stock exchanges are making some decisions for you: If they decline to list certain companies, even companies that want to be or are public, then your index fund won't buy them. Similarly if securities regulators won't allow companies that do certain things to go public, then your index fund won't buy companies that do those things.Here is an interesting letter from BlacRock Inc. to MSCI, Inc., about what companies should be included in indexes. As we've discussed before, Snap Inc. went public last year by issuing non-voting shares, which created a backlash that led to several index providers announcing that they would stop including companies with dual-class shares in some of their indexes. MSCI is another index provider that considered doing that, but it asked its customers for their opinion, and BlackRock's opinion is that it mostly shouldn't:In our view, broad market indexes should be as expansive and diverse as the underlying industries and economies whose performance they seek to capture. In constructing indexes, index providers should make every effort to reflect the investable marketplace in the broad benchmark indexes that they produce.Instead, BlackRock proposes that MSCI offer both "(i) broad market indexes that reflect the investable universe and (ii) indexes that have alternative weightings or screen companies based on governance principles, similar to index offerings with tobacco or social screens." And while it opposes permanent dual-class shares, it thinks that someone else should stop them:We believe that regulators in conjunction with listing exchanges should be the arbiters of corporate governance standards for publicly listed companies. Ideally, exchanges would limit the use of dual share class structures and market regulators would mandate minimum listing standards. However, we recognize that competitive pressures may discourage these stakeholders from imposing standards that would create an uneven playing field across jurisdictions. In fact, we are concerned that the current system will lead to a race to the bottom as exchanges compete for listings by lowering their standards for corporate governance. In light of this collective action problem, a global agreement is necessary to establish minimum corporate governance standards that would ensure a minimum level of investor protection.In some ways that is an odd thing to say. There is an established mechanism to overcome the collective-action problem on governance standards. We saw that mechanism work in the backlash to Snap. The mechanism is the index providers. The index providers aggregate feedback from investors and then decide what companies get to be in indexes and, thus, get all the index-fund money. It may not be the ideal mechanism -- BlackRock proposes "a global body such as IOSCO" -- but it's the one that does something.Still you can see BlackRock's point. The index providers' rules are important -- a lot of money follows their rules -- but they are not binding on companies. Companies can go public, and be quite big, without courting index-fund investors. And if BlackRock wants its broad index funds to invest in "the investable marketplace," then it has to invest in those companies too.On the other hand it is only approximately true that listing standards are binding on companies. Even if every stock exchange in the world got together and said "no dual-class stock," that wouldn't prevent companies from issuing dual-class stock. It would just prevent them from issuing dual-class stock and listing on a stock exchange. In practice they wouldn't be able to go public with dual-class stock. But going public is no longer a prerequisite for raising a lot of money and being a big company and living a perfectly happy corporate life. Uber can raise as much money as it wants, often from mutual funds and asset managers and, um, BlackRock. Equating "the investable marketplace" with "publicly listed companies" is not entirely correct, even for BlackRock.And it is becoming less correct. One irony here is that the power of index providers to police the investable universe has increased as that of stock exchanges has decreased. You no longer really need to go public to be "investable," in the sense of being able to raise a lot of money from institutional investors. But if you are going to go public -- to target a somewhat broader class of institutional (and retail) investors -- then you might as well be in the indexes, since they're where so much of the money is.Elsewhere in gatekeepers.Here is Felix Salmon on "Silicon Valley's Latest Revolution: Cutting Out Wall Street." The point is that things like Spotify's non-IPO IPO, Uber's ability to do a syndicated loan without banks, and the rise of private financing and initial coin offerings generally, all make traditional finance less relevant to the tech industry. But:This is one disruption that hasn’t scaled beyond the tech industry. Why didn’t Google’s Dutch auction IPO method take off? And why is it almost certain that, outside the technology sector, we’re going to see very few Spotify-style direct listings, Uber-style bankless loans, or Telegram-style ICOs? The answer lies in the balance of power. Large companies simply can’t function without a broad array of financial services, provided by highly professional relationship managers at each of the big Wall Street firms. There might be another aspect to this. Traditionally the role of banks in underwriting securities offerings and syndicating loans is not just to get all the mechanical processes right; it is also, to some extent, to vouch for the company. When Amalgamated Widgets Inc. first goes public, you don't know anything about it, and you have no reason to buy its stock. But if Morgan Stanley takes it public, and Morgan Stanley bankers conduct due diligence on it and write the prospectus, and a Morgan Stanley research analyst writes a report about it, and a Morgan Stanley salesperson calls you up and asks you to buy the stock, then you might say "oh well Morgan Stanley, fine, I will buy this Amalgamated Whatever thing." This basic certification and credentialing function is traditionally important in initial public offerings. It is totally essential in bank lending. You don't go lending money to widget companies. You put your money in a deposit at a bank, and the bank lends it to widget companies, and you never even think about the widget companies. One obvious part of what tech companies have accomplished is that they have become more famous than the banks, often without bothering to go public. Spotify didn't need the seal of approval of a bank to go public (though it got a few anyway), because it is Spotify. Uber didn't need to go public at all to raise money, because it is Uber. Another part of it, though, is that the credentialing function of banks has fallen into some suspicion. Part of this is that it has genuinely become less important: Investment banking is more transactional than it used to be, research is less important, profitability standards for initial public offerings have diminished, and there is generally less of a sense, even at the banks, that the banks are vouching for the companies that they take public. (Similarly in lending, banks now do less long-term relationship-based lending where they make a whole loan and hold it to maturity, and a lot more syndication of loans to outside investors.) Part of it is, you know, financial crisis, distrust of banks, etc. etc. etc. Surely initial coin offerings are so popular in part because they cut out the banks, and the sorts of people who use their Bitcoins to invest in ICOs are the sorts of people who were disinclined to trust banks to begin with. Residual claims.There's a widespread theory that the shareholders of a company are its "owners," and that the managers and employees of the company have a fiduciary duty to those shareholders to maximize their profits and share price. This is ... I think not quite an accurate view of what a company is, but it is often a useful shorthand. On the other hand, it is often useful to think of financial-services companies as Marxist collectives run for the benefit of their workers. Sometimes this is just legally true: Several important proprietary-trading firms and banking boutiques really are owned by and run for their workers, several prominent hedge funds now run mostly their managers' money, and many other hedge-fund firms are owned by their workers even if they also manage outside money. But even in the case of publicly-traded banks and private-equity firms, it is not completely apparent that the outside shareholders are the residual claimants on the company's cash flows. In good years, the workers get paid a lot; in bad years, the shareholders absorb a lot of the loss; and the employees and managers are more or less the ones making the decisions about how to allocate the gains. From first principles it would not be obvious that those firms are "owned" by their outside shareholders.Anyway in completely other news I was tickled by this story:“Financial services, particularly post the global crisis, had been seen to bathe itself in dishonor,” says Audette Exel, a former lawyer and banking executive in Sydney. “Many great bankers and financial-services professionals—people of great integrity—had huge concerns about that.”Exel operates an unusual consulting company that capitalizes on that anxiety. Called Adara Partners and based in New South Wales, Australia, it’s staffed by people with day jobs at the likes of Goldman Sachs, UBS, and Deutsche Bank who contribute their time on a pro bono basis. One-hundred percent of the advisory fees paid by Adara’s clients flow into Adara Development, Exel’s charity, which she started way back in 1998 to help people living in poverty. The consultants get the benefit of good karma, while Adara gets a steady source of income.It's a financial-services firm run not for the benefit of shareholders, and not even for the benefit of workers (who don't get paid), but for the benefit of charity. It does consulting for companies and sends out bills and collects revenue, but then that revenue just gets spent on charitable projects rather than bonuses or dividends. Most of what you read about the financial-services industry is about how to align the (financial) incentives of workers with whoever's interests (shareholders, depositors, customers, society) you want to align them with. It is fascinating to think about a financial-services firm with no financial incentives at all. Investing across the capital structure.Speaking of residual owners, you have to admire Eddie Lampert's approach to owning Sears Holdings Corp., which he owns in as many ways as possible:In addition to serving as Sears’s chairman and CEO, he is the company’s largest investor and among its biggest lenders. He is also chairman of, and a major investor in, Seritage, which ranks among Sears’s biggest landlords.And now he is "proposing that his hedge fund purchase the Kenmore appliance brand and other Sears units after the struggling company was unable to find other buyers," and also offering to buy more real estate. How would you diagram his incentives? If Sears somehow turns around and becomes a wild success, he'll do well as a shareholder. If Sears muddles along fine, he'll do fine as a lender and landlord. If Sears falls apart, he'll pick up a lot of the pieces as a lender and landlord and now, perhaps, owner of a lot of the pieces. Each time he does a trade like this there is some effort to manage the local conflicts of interest ("Mr. Lampert wrote that he and ESL President Kunal Kamlani, who is also a Sears director, would recuse themselves from the board’s deliberations" about the Kenmore sale), and he may well be offering the best deal that the company is going to get for its loans, asset sales, etc., but still the accumulation of these deals seems like a broader conflict. Ideally a board of directors would prefer for its CEO's incentives to be aligned with those of shareholders. You don't want the CEO's incentives pointing in every possible direction.Wagging the VIX.Here is a post from the Bank of England's Bank Underground blog called "Is the tail wagging the dog? The impact of VIX exchange traded products on equity volatility" that points out that exchange-traded products betting for or against volatility both magnify the effect of volatility:When volatility spikes, issuers of leveraged VIX ETPs have to rebalance at the end of the day by buying large amounts of VIX futures.  Perhaps somewhat counterintuitively, rebalancing flows are procyclical regardless of whether the ETP benefits from rising or falling volatility – issuers of both types of ETPs have to rebalance in a way which amplifies initial moves in volatility. VIX exchange-traded products are either long or short VIX futures. When VIX futures go up -- when volatility expectations increase -- then levered long VIX ETPs make money and need to buy more VIX futures to remain properly levered; meanwhile short VIX ETPs lose money and need to reduce their short-VIX exposure by buying back futures. (We talked about how this works for short products back in February.) So both sides are buying VIX futures as they go up, which pushes them up further. And vice versa when futures go down. So the existence of VIX exchange-traded products makes the VIX -- the measure of volatility -- more volatile.Though they also work the other way:But in addition to making spikes in volatility sharper, VIX ETPs also have the potential to make them shorter-lived.  When volatility spikes, holders of VIX ETPs positioning for higher volatility need to quickly sell their ETP holdings in order to realise a profit.  This is because volatility spikes tend not to persist and eventually volatility falls back down to around previous averages, which erodes the profit.  At the same time, a spike in volatility tends to be seen as an opportunity to initiate trades positioning for lower volatility.  Together, these flows put downward pressure on the price of VIX futures in the days following the volatility spike.The bank also says, though:That said, according to the Bank’s contacts, developments in VIX ETPs tend not to spill over to the S&P 500 – or that the VIX ETP “tail” does not wag the S&P 500 “dog”.  Unlike VIX futures, there is no mechanical link between hedging flows linked to VIX ETPs and equity prices.  The universe of VIX ETPs is also relatively small.Well, I dunno, I feel like there is a bit of a mechanical link, which is long and attenuated but still worth describing:You shouldn't overestimate this. ("The universe of VIX ETPs is also relatively small," points out the bank.) But the point is that bets -- even weird levered funky technical-driven exchange-traded-product bets -- that volatility will go up can go propagate back into the world and cause volatility to go up. And why not? Betting that a stock will go up makes it go up; there's an intuitive sense in which betting that volatility will go up should make it go up. The weirder part is that betting that volatility will go down can have the same result.Sohn."Jeff Gundlach Wore A Purple Corduroy Suit To This Year’s Sohn Conference…And Thus Concludes Our Coverage Of This Year’s Sohn Conference," is the Dealbreaker headline, and you know what? That is a good amount of Sohn Conference coverage.Things happen.How 3% Yields Could Reshape the Investing Landscape. Deutsche Bank Is Weighing Massive Cuts in Its U.S. Cash Equities Unit. Newell Brands Reaches Deal With Investor to Avoid Proxy Battle. Chinese Ride-Hailing Giant Didi Hits Accelerator on Talks for IPO. WeWork aims to tap debt markets in expansion drive. NYSE challenges Nasdaq’s reign as king of the tech IPO. Tesla CDS? Andreessen Horowitz is preparing to launch a separate fund for crypto investments. United Airlines CEO to Skip Bonus, Chairman Will Step Aside. McKesson's Board Clears Itself of Fault on Opioid Oversight. KPMG faces shareholder protests over GE and Wells Fargo audits. John Tax CPA Does Not Find Name Taxing. Facebook Removes More ISIS Content by Actively Looking for It. "Greenwich, Connecticut — historically one of the richest towns in the US — may not seem like the kind of place where security guards are needed for a networking event." I Wore A Vest Like Jeff Bezos For A Week To See If I’d Be More Powerful. Aggressive goose takes out golfer. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-18T20:50:18.959Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/bitcoin-whale-sightings-are-leaving-cryptocurrency-traders-jumpy
Occasional sighting of Bitcoin whales are leaving advocates of the biggest cryptocurrency anxious after what’s already been a choppy week of trading.Sudden  market swings in the cryptocurrency this week have left price charts looking like a jack-o-lantern’s smile. And some investors are blaming the gyrations on actions by large Bitcoin holders, known as whales.“The best explanation is coming from those whales in the market who want to have some sort of control on what’s going on,” said Jonathan Benassaya, the founder and chief executive officer at San Francisco-based IronChain Capital. “It’s some sort of manipulation from actors."Bitcoin’s recent choppy moves aren’t that unusual, cautioned Tom Lee, head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors. "I think it feels off right now because, you know, we’ve been on a down trend since December, and now, even though the volatility hasn’t changed much, it’s hard to tell if Bitcoin is trying to stage a recovery or if it’s continuing its down trend," Lee said.In a less mature market that lacks the same history and complexity that the stock market holds, the digital currency is a lot more vulnerable to liquidity movements. "It’s the state of it now because there isn’t a ton of liquidity and there is regulatory uncertainty and general nervousness," he said.

2018-04-19T09:01:11.592Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-04-19/what-bitcoin-is-really-worth-may-no-longer-be-such-a-mystery
It took two economists one three-course meal and two bottles of wine to calculate the fair value of one Bitcoin: $200.It took an extra day for them to realize they were one decimal place out: $20, they decided, was the right price for a virtual currency that was worth $1,200 a year ago, flirted with $20,000 in December, and is still around $8,000. Setting aside the fortunes lost on it this year, Bitcoin, by their calculation, is still overvalued, to the tune of about 40,000 percent. The pair named this the Côtes du Rhône theory, after the wine they were drinking.“It’s how we get our best ideas. It’s the lubricant,” says Savvas Savouri, a partner at a London hedge fund who shared drinking and thinking duties that night with Richard Jackman, professor emeritus at the London School of Economics. Their quest is one shared by the legions of traders, techies, online scribblers, and gamblers and grifters mesmerized by Bitcoin. What’s the value of a cryptocurrency made of code with no country enforcing it, no central bank controlling it, and few places to spend it? Is it $2, $20,000, or $2 million? Can one try to grasp at rational analysis, or is this just the madness of crowds?Answering this question isn’t easy: Buying Bitcoin won’t net you any cash flows, or any ownership of the blockchain technology underpinning it, or really anything much at all beyond the ability to spend or save it. Maybe that’s why Warren Buffett once said the idea that Bitcoin had “huge intrinsic value” was a “joke”—there’s no earnings potential that can be used to estimate its value. But with $2 billion pumped into cryptocurrency hedge funds last year, there’s a lot of money betting the punchline is something other than zero. If Bitcoin is a currency, and currencies have value, surely some kind of stab—even in the dark—should be made at gauging its worth.Writing on a tablecloth, Jackman and Savouri turned to the quantity theory of money. Formalized by Irving Fisher in 1911, with origins that go back to Copernicus’s work on the effects of debasing coinage, the theory holds that the price of money is linked to its supply and how often it’s used.Here’s how it works. By knowing a money’s total supply, its velocity—the rate at which people use each coin—and the amount of goods and services on which it’s spent, you should be able to calculate price. Estimating Bitcoin’s supply at about 15 million coins (it’s currently a bit more), and assuming each one is used an average of about four times a year, led Jackman and Savouri to calculate that 60 million Bitcoin payments were supporting their assumed $1.2 billion worth of total U.S. dollar-denominated purchases. Using the theory popularized by Fisher and his followers, you can—simplifying things somewhat—divide the $1.2 billion by the 60 million Bitcoin payments to get the price of Bitcoin in dollars. That’s $20.So far, so straightforward. It turns out, however, that when it comes to putting a price on Bitcoin, the same equation can yield many different answers. In September, Dan Davies, an analyst at financial research firm Frontline Analysts Ltd., wrote up a “guesstimate” of Bitcoin’s value that he’d originally conducted in 2014 using—again—the quantity theory of money. He plugged in estimates for each variable and got about $600.On Dec. 10, Mark Kirker, a high school math teacher in California, published an analysis online using the same equation for the same purpose. He concluded that Bitcoin should be way above then-current levels. He’s since revised the number. Contacted by Bloomberg, he says it could be $15,000.How can something be worth $20, $600, and $15,000 within the same theory? One key reason stems from what we don’t know about cryptocurrencies rather than what we do know. We know Bitcoin’s maximum supply is 21 million, and we know the velocity of most commonly used currencies. We don’t know how widely Bitcoin will be adopted tomorrow, how frequently it will transact, or what it will be used for. In Davies’s example, a guide to Bitcoin’s future potential was the illicit drugs market, an obvious home for more-or-less-untraceable digital cash. The United Nations has estimated this market at $120 billion. Plugging in that number helped Davies get to $600.For Kirker, though, drugs and criminals are only part of the story. He imagines including the output of some developing countries where cryptocurrencies might have better takeup than traditional banking. But with so much up in the air, the equation starts to look less like algebra and more like alchemy. Even in the non-Bitcoin world, the velocity of money and its price can fluctuate in ways not predicted by fundamental analysis. “I am not wholly surprised it doesn’t pin down a price target to within a factor of 100 either way,” Davies says.Some believe the cloud of confusion has to do with the simple fact that cryptocurrency is something entirely new—it needs a fresh school of economic thinking to go with it. A quantity theory of cryptomoney, perhaps.John Pfeffer, formerly a partner at KKR & Co., has written several papers to this effect, arguing that technology is turning the centuries-old equation on its head. Bandwidth and computing resources are the fuel of cryptocurrencies, and they need their place in quantity theory, he argues. His version of the equation imagines a world in which more powerful computers and faster connection speeds combine to lower the cost of maintaining a crypto-economy over time, while the same forces radically increase the availability and speed of its digital coins. There already exist hundreds of tokens other than Bitcoin, pointing to a world where digital currencies are, well, a dime a dozen.In a future where cryptocurrencies become a form of economic resource (like fuel, water, or electricity) that’s computerized and commoditized, would anyone get rich from hoarding them in her trading account? No, says Pfeffer. In his view, the more widely used a particular brand of digital cash becomes, the higher the probability its value tends toward zero. In quantity theory terms, cryptocoins’ velocity could go way, way up, while the cost of many services within the crypto-economy could go way, way down. Crypto could change the world and still leave a lot of people with worthless tokens.Pfeffer dangles one hope in front of the Bitcoin faithful who dream of riches: the possibility there’s one cryptocurrency out there that will serve as a store of value for the digital world. Like gold, a metal seen by investors as a haven in times of crisis or when the purchasing power of cash is eroding, whichever coin wins that crown will have a completely different use—and price—than the rest. Applying this thinking to Bitcoin, Pfeffer explains, would yield a price target of $260,000 to $800,000.Such a value would be not too far off $1 million—where the frequently mocked, frizzy-haired self-help guru James Altucher expects Bitcoin to be in 2020. Software entrepreneur John McAfee has said it will hit $500,000. “If not, I will eat my d--- on national television,” he tweeted. He later doubled his target price. Pfeffer has been more careful than most in warning of significant risk of investment loss. “This could all go substantially to zero for various reasons,” he wrote in December.Putting a price on Bitcoin is therefore less about crunching numbers and more about deciding just what it is and what it could be, if anything. That’s appetizing for risk-hungry optimists in the venture capital world, who are accustomed to their investments turning into big hits or big flops. Ride-hailing service Uber Technologies Inc., for example, has lost an eye-watering amount of money, yet it’s one of the most highly valued companies in the world. It’s a bet that more traditional investors would have difficulty justifying using traditional metrics.But it also means science and snake oil sit side by side. Quantity theory is one example of how an equation can be remodeled to fit different scenarios or different wishes about where the price will land. And it’s not the only one: Network adoption, the cost curve of Bitcoin mining, and transaction volumes have all been bundled into marketable literature advising traders and investors on what to buy. It’s a thick numbers soup. At least Uber has financial accounts to review.Those with long memories also remember the quantitative analyses that underpinned the hot new asset classes of the past, from dot-com stocks to securitized art. These were often sold to investors as new metrics and radical investment theses, only to be ditched when a recession or panicked sell-off hit. “They’re always talking about a new paradigm, but I say it’s the same meat, different gravy,” says Côtes du Rhône theorist Savouri, who maintains traditional economic theory should be embraced rather than ignored by the Bitcoin faithful.For Savouri, the easiest way to understand the efflorescence of theories and valuations being bandied about is to opt for a simple, overarching one: the greater fool theory. It says that one fool buys in the hope that there’s an ever-bigger sucker willing to pay more. “The problem,” he says, “is that we don’t breed fools geometrically.”Lionel Laurent is a reporter for Bloomberg Gadfly.Follow @crypto on Twitter for the latest news. 

2018-04-23T16:00:18.924Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-23/how-to-avoid-a-retirement-disaster
The $140 billion drop in the value of General Electric Co.’s stock price during the past year gets the full human interest treatment in the Wall Street Journal. I don’t want to minimize the deep individual suffering of those who had their retirement savings tied up in GE’s stock, but it is as good a time as any to examine a host of human failings. My hope is to help others avoid a similar fate.The Journal sums up the scope of the problem this way:The stock value lost by GE in the past 12 months is twice the amount that vanished when Enron Corp. collapsed in 2001 — and more than the combined market capitalization erased by the bankruptcies of Lehman Brothers and General Motors during the financial crisis. Longer term, GE’s market capitalization has fallen more than $460 billion since its 2000 peak.This sort of thing has happened many times, as that paragraph indicates, and it will surely happen again. There are several forces that keep driving these errors. Recognizing and understanding them is crucial:The fall in GE’s shares has caused many people a lot of pain. It could easily have been avoided.To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-18T17:06:36.695Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/bolivar-to-bitcoin-market-hits-record-1-million-per-day
The Venezuelan bolivar to bitcoin market reached a record on Tuesday, as the dollar-starved nation increasingly seeks the digital token in exchange for its nearly worthless currency.Source: LocalBitcoins, VeneblocThe equivalent of $1.006 million were exchanged from bolivars to the digital token on April 17, according to data from VeneBloc, which tracks transactions made on LocalBitcoins’ website and currently posts a rate of 845,000 bolivars per dollar. The trade helps Venezuelans access dollars (and other currencies) since the government enforced strict foreign exchange controls in 2003. Individuals and businesses often need to resort to the black market when they can’t obtain government approval to purchase dollars at legal rates.With limited access to official foreign exchange markets, Venezuelans rely on a number of artifices to get a sense of what their money is worth -- from websites that track the rate to dollar auctions on WhatsApp groups and cryptocurrency exchanges. Amid skyrocketing inflation and a massive depreciation of the bolivar, even local businesses often demand foreign currency for nearly everything they offer.For more on bitcoin, check out the Decrypted podcast: 

2018-04-18T10:09:57.811Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/sweden-police-told-icelandic-suspect-likely-fled-their-way
Stockholm (AP) -- A man suspected of masterminding the theft of about 600 computers used to mine bitcoins and other virtual currencies has likely fled to Sweden after breaking out of a prison in Iceland, officials said Wednesday.Swedish police spokesman Stefan Dangardt says no arrest has been made in Sweden but Icelandic police have briefed them on the situation and issued an international arrest warrant.Police in Iceland said they believe Sindri Thor Stefansson fled a low-security prison through a window and boarded a flight to Sweden at Iceland's international airport in Keflavik.Icelandic officials said it was unlikely that Stefansson had to show a passport at the airport since he traveled within Europe's passport-free Schengen travel zone but the plane ticket he used was under someone else's name.Non-European Union member Iceland is member of Europe's borderless travel area.Stefansson was among 11 people arrested for allegedly stealing the powerful computers in a series of four burglaries in December and January in what is considered Iceland's biggest-ever heist.The stolen equipment, which still is missing, has been valued at almost $2 million. Icelandic media have the case the "Big Bitcoin Heist." If used for its original purpose — to create new bitcoins — the thieves could turn a massive profit in an untraceable currency.Police have arrested 22 people altogether, including a security guard, without solving the burglaries.The escaped prisoner was being held at the Sogn prison in rural southern Iceland, 95 kilometers (59 miles) from the airport. The prison is unfenced and inmates have telephone and internet access.Stefansson had been in custody since February. He was moved to the open prison 10 days ago, police said."He had an accomplice," Police Chief Gunnar Schram told Visir, an online news outlet in Iceland. "We are sure of that."A passenger on the same flight to Sweden as the inmate told national broadcaster RUV that Iceland's prime minister, Katrin Jakobsdottir, was also on that flight.Jakobsdottir was among five Nordic prime ministers who met with India's prime minister Tuesday in Stockholm.___Egill Bjarnason contributed from Iceland.

2018-04-20T14:38:35.567Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-20/being-short-and-right-can-be-bad
Longfin.Longfin Corp. is a company that emitted some nonsensical noises about cryptocurrencies and blockchain and thereby briefly became worth than $6 billion. There were two critical bits of luck or skill that allowed Longfin to get that valuation. First, it emitted its noises about blockchain at exactly the time when everyone wanted to hear noises about blockchain (last December, when it went public). Second, it had (and has) an extremely limited public float: It has 74.5 million shares outstanding but sold only 1.14 million of them in its initial public offering, though it was also allegedly doing some illegal unregistered share sales which I guess, technically, would increase the float. But the point is, people wanted to buy Longfin shares because they were seduced by the blockchain noises, and there weren't that many shares to buy so the price of those shares went up a lot, and then you had to multiply that price by the much larger number of Longfin shares that weren't available to buy to get its comically inflated market capitalization.Lots of other people, though, were less seduced, and were extremely keen on selling Longfin. Well-known short-seller Andrew Left of Citron Research called Longfin "a pure stock scheme" whose filings were "riddled with inaccuracies and fraud," and said that Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement "should not be far behind." This is hard to argue with; the SEC brought an enforcement action about two weeks after he tweeted that. But he prefaced those comments with "if you are fortunate enough to get a borrow": Selling Longfin stock short was hard and expensive, because you need to borrow shares to sell them short, and pay a daily fee to keep borrowing them. Again, Longfin had an extremely limited public float, so there were not a lot of shares to borrow, and a lot of people who wanted to borrow them.Another way to bet against Longfin was to buy put options on it, which give buyers the right to sell stock in the future at some fixed price. If you buy a put and the stock price goes below the put strike price by the expiration date of the put, you can exercise the put, sell the stock at the strike price, and buy it back at the lower market price. Anyone who bet against Longfin, by selling it short or by buying puts, seems to have been right, insofar as the SEC has accused it of fraud and Nasdaq has halted trading in the stock. Sadly, they were a bit too right for their own good: The trading halt means that Longfin cannot trade either on the exchange or over the counter, so it is stuck in limbo at its last price of $28.189 per share (a $2.1-billion-dollar market capitalization) from April 6, just before the SEC released its complaint. Not that you can buy it for $28.189; that's just the last printed price. You can't buy, or sell, it for any price.If you are a Longfin short seller that is actually a problem! You bet that Longfin was a fraud, and the regulators seem to agree with you, but the regulators have also taken away your ability to profit from your bet, because you can't buy in the stock to close out your short position. Instead you are stuck in your short position, having borrowed the stock, and continuing to pay a lot to borrow it each day until trading resumes. We have talked about this problem recently; it is by no means unique to Longfin, but you don't usually see it in formerly-$6-billion companies.If you are a Longfin put buyer it is also a problem. Jamie Powell at FT Alphaville wrote yesterday about the Longfin put options that expire today. "There are 4,889 Longfin put options [on 488,900 shares] expiring [Friday] which have a strike price of above $30 and are therefore, in trading parlance, 'in-the-money,'" he notes, and those option holders have a couple of problems. (Here is a Reddit thread of their grievances.) First of all, if trading in Longfin is halted -- if you can't buy or sell its stock -- then can the put holders exercise their right to sell the stock at the put price? The answer is yes, actually -- I guess delivery of shares underlying an option doesn't count as "trading" for a trading halt -- but it is more complicated than usual; while in-the-money options normally are automatically exercised at expiration, option holders on halted shares need to contact the Options Clearing Corporation to exercise their options. ("Let's hope Longfin bears got the memo," writes Powell.)Second, even if you do exercise your put and sell your shares, you need to find shares to sell. If you already own shares, then that's easy, but I doubt there are too many Longfin put holders who also own shares. ("I'll buy some Longfin stock but hedge it with puts" does not seem like a common thought process here; either you're long or you're short.) If you don't own shares, you can't buy them -- trading is halted -- so you have to borrow them. But remember that it is difficult and expensive to borrow Longfin stock. So the put holders who exercise will exercise into a lot of pain.There's one other problem. Powell writes about the Longfin options that are "in-the-money" because their strike prices ($30 and up) are above Longfin's current stock price. But Longfin doesn't have a current stock price. It has a last stock price of $28.189 as of April 6, but a lot has happened since then. (The trading halt, the fraud case ....) And there are thousands more Longfin options with strike prices below $30 that might be in-the-money, depending on what your view of Longfin's current stock value is. If you have a Longfin put struck at $22.50 that expires today -- and I see on Bloomberg that there are 1,997 of those options, with 199,700 shares underlying -- and you exercise it today, then you are effectively getting short Longfin at $22.50 per share, still almost a $1.7-billion-dollar market capitalization. Ordinarily you'd never exercise an out-of-the-money put just because you think the stock will go down -- it's better to let the put expire and just short the stock directly -- but here there's no other way to short the stock because it is halted. If you think Longfin is worthless then exercising your put is a good trade. If you think that shorting Longfin while it's halted is a nightmarish abyss, then exercising your put is a way to jump into a nightmarish abyss. Both of those beliefs seem perfectly plausible and consistent. So what do you do?"Naked short selling" -- selling stock without either owning or borrowing it -- is a thing that has a bad reputation; it sounds risqué, and there is a widespread (though not especially correct) belief that it somehow creates "phantom shares" that can be used to manipulate the stock price. But as we have discussed before, legitimate -- clothed -- short selling is a very risky way to bet against fraudulent companies. Even if you are proven entirely right in short order, there are enough weird ways to get squeezed stock borrow costs that you might lose money even as the stock collapses and the fraud is exposed. In fact, regulators exposing the fraud and halting the stock is one of those ways! In a sense, the flimsier a company is -- the more it relies on transparent fakery and thin float to rapidly create a multibillion-dollar valuation -- the riskier it is to short it. And if it's too hard to short the flimsiest companies, then you'll keep seeing ridiculous stories about flimsy companies with those huge valuations. Website website website.Here's a story about how the shipping industry, which "still relies on millions and millions of paper documents," is pushing to get shippers, customers, banks, insurers, port authorities and others to stop filling out forms on paper and start filling them out on websites instead:Should they succeed, documentation that takes days will eventually be done in minutes, much of it without the need for human input. The cost of moving goods across continents could drop dramatically, adding fresh impetus to relocate manufacturing or source materials and goods from overseas. “This would be the biggest innovation in the industry since the containerization,” said Rahul Kapoor, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence in Singapore. “It basically brings more transparency and efficiency. The container shipping lines are coming out of their shells and playing catch-up in technology.”Oh fine fine fiiiiiiiine of course you know that the word isn't "website," it is "blockchain." The idea is not that you'd go to A.P. Moeller-Maerk A/S's website and fill out a form that Maersk would use to track your container; it's that you'd go to Maersk's website and fill out a form that Maersk would use to track your container on the blockchain. Sorry sorry sorry I will try again. The idea is that you'd go to a website maintained by some sort of industry-wide consortium, and you'd fill out a form, and rather than that form's data living in a proprietary database maintained by Maersk or even by the industry-wide consortium, it would live in a shared database maintained (on the blockchain!) by the shipping industry collectively, which might make the database more secure and reliable and adaptable and trustworthy, and perhaps more likely to be used. A national customs agency, for instance, might be happier approving shipments on an auditable open blockchain than in the proprietary database of a particular shipping company. That is the idea. The reality is of course that each shipping company has hired a technology company to build its own proprietary cargo-tracking website, I mean blockchain: Maersk "has teamed up with International Business Machines Corp. to enable real-time tracking of its cargo and documents using blockchain," andAPL Ltd., owned by the world’s third-largest container line CMA CGM SA, together with Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, Accenture Plc, a European customs organization and other companies said last month that they’ve tested a blockchain-based platform. South Korea’s Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. held trial runs last year using a system developed with Samsung SDS Co.You do not quite get the benefits of trustless decentralization and seamless movement of commerce if each shipping company builds its own proprietary blockchain. If they really want to blockchain it up in here, "dozens of shipping lines and thousands of related businesses around the world -- including manufacturers, banks, insurers, brokers and port authorities -- will have to work out a protocol that can integrate all the new systems onto one vast platform."It is perhaps an interesting data point that the shipping-blockchain project didn't start that way: Rather than all the big shippers coming together to agree on and build a vast new platform for the industry to use, each of them seems to be building its own system and hoping that everyone else adopts it. The problem of putting everyone on one system is not primarily technological: The securities industry built its own vast platform for every brokerage to agree on stock trades back in the 1970s, before the blockchain was a glimmer in Satoshi Nakamoto's eye. The problem is a social, coordination problem: You gotta get everyone to agree to use one system, blockchain or otherwise. The word "blockchain" gets people excited and so is useful in solving that coordination problem -- "come to the blockchain meeting!" is a lot more appealing than "come to the paperwork reduction meeting!" -- but at this point it may have had too much success. Why just go to the blockchain meeting when you can build your own blockchain? But if everyone does that then it won't work.The crypto.Speaking of emitting blockchain noises, this took some chutzpah!Big Silicon Valley backers of cryptocurrencies have sought a broad exemption from federal oversight they say would slow digital coin growth ...The group wanted formal assurance from regulators that their products would be exempt from SEC oversight, arguing the tokens aren’t investments but products that can be exclusively used to access services or networks provided by startup companies, people familiar with the meeting said.Oh man, I hope they whipped out a laptop and showed the SEC staff all the actual working platforms that use functioning crypto tokens. "Look at this widely used network in which participants regularly buy goods and services using a crypto token," I hope they said, "and look how stable and non-speculative the price of that token is." I hope the screen was blank, and the venture capitalists had a glassy-eyed faraway look. I hope the SEC patted them gently on the heads and said "of course, of course."Look, I am sympathetic to the idea that some innovation should be allowed in initial coin offerings, and that the fact that ICO tokens definitely seem like "securities" under existing precedent doesn't necessarily mean that the best policy approach is to subject them to all of our existing securities laws. The optimistic view of ICOs is that they enable a genuinely new way to fund and create ownerless networks, and in this age of overly powerful owned networks, that is something worth exploring and encouraging. But you do have to start from a place of honesty: "These are probably securities, so what do we do about it" rather than "hahaha what there is no speculation in the ICO market, what are you even talking about?"Also:The group said it wouldn’t object to the SEC intervening if a token issuer committed fraud, the people said.How generous of them! Come on man. You can't walk into the SEC and say "blockchain!" and expect the SEC to reply "oh blockchain, I didn't realize you were going to say blockchain, never mind, do whatever you want, we won't interfere." Come on. Blockchain.Oh Barclays.A while back, an anonymous whistle-blower sent a letter to Barclays PLC's board of directors besmirching the reputation of a senior banker whom Barclays Chief Executive Officer Jes Staley had hired. Staley thought that this letter was an unfair and scurrilous attack and set out to identify the whistle-blower so that he could, presumably, call him a rapscallion or challenge him to a duel or whatever. This was pretty understandable on a human level, really, but also egregiously bad as a matter of whistle-blower policy: If your whistle-blower policy only protects anonymous whistle-blowers whom the CEO happens to agree with, then it doesn't really protect anyone.This was all pretty embarrassing, and Staley apologized, and the board reprimanded him and reduced his compensation, and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority investigated, and they are now wrapping up their investigation and have brought their conclusions to Barclays:The FCA and PRA are alleging that Mr Staley’s actions in relation to this matter represented a breach of Individual Conduct Rule 2 (requirement to act with due skill, care and diligence) and each have proposed that he pay a financial penalty. The FCA and PRA are not alleging that he acted with a lack of integrity or that he lacks fitness and propriety to continue to perform his role as Group Chief Executive Officer.So the FCA and PRA came to the same place as the board: Staley should be embarrassed, reprimanded, and fined, but not fired. You don't see a lot of this: a big high-profile investigation into the personal misconduct of a bank chief executive officer that ends neither in exoneration nor in firing, but in "yeah it was bad but he can stay." It does seem, though, that the concept of venial sin is a useful one. This result sends the message that proper treatment of whistle-blowers is important (thus the fines and embarrassment), but not the most important thing, and that Staley got it wrong but can learn from his mistakes. I suppose that is debatable -- the experience of Wells Fargo & Co. shows how bad things can get if you don't take whistle-blowing policy seriously -- but the broader point is that there are surely some things that are bad enough to result in embarrassment and fines but not bad enough to result in the axe, and probably a project of the post-post-crisis banking regulatory world will be figuring out exactly where those lines get drawn.Oh Deutsche Bank.Happens to the best of us:A routine payment went awry at Deutsche Bank AG last month when Germany’s biggest lender inadvertently sent 28 billion euros ($35 billion) to an exchange as part of its daily dealings in derivatives, according to a person familiar with the matter.My extremely hypothetical and not-at-all-legal-advice advice to you is, of course, if anyone ever accidentally wires you $35 billion, you should take it and flee the country, but I guess it is not easy for "Deutsche Boerse AG's Eurex clearinghouse" to flee the country. Anyway Deutsche Bank got the money back. Surveillance.Here is an amazing Bloomberg Businessweek article about Palantir Technologies Inc. that starts with an anecdote about Peter Cavicchia III, who "ran special ops for JPMorgan Chase & Co." with the help of Palantir engineers who were embedded at the bank and who "had to agree to wear shirts with collars, tucked in when possible." They built quite a toy for him:Palantir’s algorithm, for example, alerted the insider threat team when an employee started badging into work later than usual, a sign of potential disgruntlement. That would trigger further scrutiny and possibly physical surveillance after hours by bank security personnel.Over time, however, Cavicchia himself went rogue. Former JPMorgan colleagues describe the environment as Wall Street meets Apocalypse Now, with Cavicchia as Colonel Kurtz, ensconced upriver in his office suite eight floors above the rest of the bank’s security team. People in the department were shocked that no one from the bank or Palantir set any real limits. They darkly joked that Cavicchia was listening to their calls, reading their emails, watching them come and go. Some planted fake information in their communications to see if Cavicchia would mention it at meetings, which he did.Um! Cavicchia was eventually forced out because he spied on a different internal spying effort (an investigation into who had leaked information about JPMorgan's electricity manipulation), which ... also um! There are important lessons here about our surveillance society, but the one that I want to draw your attention to is, if you work at a bank, (1) someone in a compliance/surveillance department is definitely reading your emails so (2) you should craft your emails with that audience in mind. Meaning, first, of course, definitely don't email about committing fraud or leaving for a better job; hopefully you already knew that. But once you've taken care of that, sure, go nuts, liven up their day a little. Put some fake information in your emails. Conduct an entire, fictitious, steamy romance with your own alternate email account, just to keep them entertained. Also, if you are a compliance officer who is reading this email not because you are a subscriber but because you are surveilling a bank employee who is a subscriber: Hi! This is a little awkward, but it's nice to meet you. If this describes you please shoot me an email; I'd love to hear more about you and whoever's email you're reading. Things happen.Wells Fargo to Be Fined $1 Billion Over Consumer Missteps. Hedge Fund Titans Pull Money From Funds for Huge Tax Bills. Mt. Gox and the Surprising Redemption of Bitcoin’s Biggest Villain. Blackstone Results Top Expectations, Helped by Fee Growth. African nations slipping into new debt crisis. Robo Adviser Wealthfront Cuts a Fee to Appease Angry Investors. Shire rejects £42.4bn Takeda offer as Allergan rules itself out. With World’s Biggest FX Trade Shackled, Investors Get Creative. People are worried about an inverted yield curve. 'Fearless Girl' is moving to a new home. Robot successfully assembles an Ikea chair. Wenger Out! If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-19T12:12:57.543Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-19/free-trips-tech-booms-and-good-oysters
My morning train reads:What are you reading?Source: Committee for a Responsible Federal BudgetWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-19T20:35:23.428Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-19/your-evening-briefing
Want to receive this post in your inbox every afternoon? Sign up here.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell opposes a bill to protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller from being fired. But Senator Chuck Grassley said he’s determined to hold a vote on just such a proposal. Like when the filibuster was protected by the majority—lest it be unavailable when in the minority—the Judiciary Committee chairman is counting on the possible pique of some future president, under some future criminal investigation, to scare fellow Republicans into supporting the measure. Besides, a Justice Department official told Donald Trump he isn't even a target of the Russia collusion probe.Apple and a bunch of chipmakers took a hit on Wall Street Thursday after Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the smartphone industry's leader when it comes to chips, sent out a growth forecast that had investors worried the handset boom is waning. That followed a report by the International Monetary Fund saying smartphone shipments declined for the first time.Last week everyone was worried about an accidental military conflict between the U.S. and Russia. Now the concern is fallout from recent missile strikes in Syria could lead to fighting between Israel and Russia.Lyft, in a bid to draw more eco-friendly customers from rival Uber, said it plans to spend millions of dollars annually to fund projects that will offset pollution created by its drivers.What bitcoin is really worth may no longer be such a mystery. It’s somewhere between $20 and $800,000, according to economic theory and a night of drinking.Philip Morris shares plunged after its latest earnings report showed $4.5 billion spent on new products hasn’t produced a surefire successor to cigarettes, which more and more people are dropping like a bad habit.A plain sweater made entirely of cashmere can cost $2,000. Another sweater made entirely of cashmere goes for $30. Confused? Here’s how that works.There's a lot of good beer in the cooler at the back of your local deli, as well as places out in the craft beer desert. Five beer experts give their top two choices for when you’re low on options.

2018-04-19T20:40:59.594Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-19/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jg6zqmkg
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereInvestors turned their attention to tech woes, earnings and M&A news Thursday, while the U.S. Treasury is considering using emergency powers to curtail Chinese investment in sensitive technologies. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.The Treasury Department is considering using an emergency law to curb Chinese investments in sensitive technologies in the U.S., said Heath Tarbert, an assistant secretary in Treasury’s international affairs office. The investment curbs would be the latest step in President Donald Trump’s plan to punish China for what the U.S. sees as violations of American intellectual-property rights. The president asked Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to consider investment restrictions on Chinese firms after the administration released the results of its probe into China’s IP practices last month.The relentless rally in metals took a breather, with aluminum falling from a seven-year high. The commodity posted its first loss in four days amid speculation Russia will come to the aid of United Co. Rusal amid U.S. sanctions, easing supply concerns. A rout in tech stocks dragged on U.S. benchmarks, while a supply-induced selloff in European debt sent Treasuries tumbling. Ten-year yields reached 2.93%, within a couple basis points of the year’s high set in February. The dollar tracked the climb in yields, advancing to its strongest level in almost two weeks. Euro-Swiss franc topped 1.20 for the first time since January 2015, while the pound slid after Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said that the BOE has yet to decide on when to raise interest rates.Apple and a slew of chipmakers fell Thursday after Taiwan Semiconductor issued a tepid growth forecast that rekindled concerns the handset boom is waning. The world's largest chipmaker forecast revenue of $7.8 billion to $7.9 billion, falling short of the $8.8 billion estimate. TMSC's earnings are a key indicator for demand in a world where chipmakers and electronics manufacturers increasingly outsource costly production.Qualcomm reapplied for approval from China's Ministry of Commerce for its acquisition of NXP Semiconductors. China's Mofcom said Thursday the deal would have a substantial impact on the tech industry and may have negative effect on the market. The moves come amid increasing trade tensions between the world's two largest economies. In health care, Shire rejected a $60 billion offer from Takeda Pharmaceuticals, but said it would evaluate any further proposals from the Japanese company.Problems keep piling up for Philippine stocks, the world’s worst performers this year. The benchmark index fell as much as 3.3% Thursday as mounting inflation pressure and concern the economy is overheating spur speculation the central bank will need to tighten more aggressively than previously thought. The nation’s peso, Asia’s worst-performing currency this year, is also worrying investors. Meanwhile, in Malaysia, foreign inflows have helped send the country’s benchmark index to an all-time high ahead of general elections May 9.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds

2018-04-20T09:00:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-20/four-harvard-students-jump-on-the-crypto-hedge-fund-bandwagon
In the 1970s, Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer revolutionized operating system software. Thirty years later, Mark Zuckerberg helped pioneer social networking. So what’s the latest generation of Harvard tech entrepreneurs up to? Looking to cash in on cryptocurrency, of course. Sign of the times.Bushra Hamid, the 19-year-old daughter of Syrian immigrants, has teamed up with three schoolmates to form Plympton Capital, a hedge fund for investing in digital currencies. Hamid says they aim to launch in six to eight weeks, starting with $1 million. Plympton, named for a street in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has already raised $700,000 from friends and family.“We don’t necessarily know a lot,” when it comes to the ins and outs of Wall Street, Hamid said, but when it comes to crypto, “they have full trust in us.”While many tech-savvy individual investors have long dabbled in cryptocurrencies, funds became interested in the last few years. About 226 have opened so far, most of them within the past year, managing as much as $5 billion in capital, according to Autonomous Research LLP.Current Plympton investors say the team has what it takes to succeed.“Their method is what’s appealing,” said one, Adnan Khan, a physician in Austin, Texas. “They have a smart approach with a proven track record. And I personally know Bushra’s ability to focus with meticulous attention.”Bitcoin, the bellwether for the entire market, has retreated from last year’s heights, sending the crypto fund returns down 48 percent in the first quarter, according to the Eurekahedge Crypto-Currency Hedge Fund Index.Source: Autonomous Research LLPMany funds aren’t expected to survive for long, and some have already folded. In spite of those setbacks, more funds have opened, some helmed by people in their 20s, according to Remy Astie, chief executive officer of Citadelle Ltd., which helps set them up. Astie himself is 24.The Plympton group is banking on the youth movement. A recent online survey of about 2,000 adults conducted by Harris Poll for Blockchain Capital showed that 4 percent of millennials -- people 18 to 34 years old -- have owned Bitcoin, twice the rate of the general population. And 16 percent of millennials said they plan to buy Bitcoin in the next five years.“Some people might see our age, and see this is a new growing space that’s largely driven by the millennials,” Junaid Zubair, another Plympton founder, said. “That allows for a high sense of liability but also passion and interest. There we might have an advantage.”Plympton’s plan is to deploy technical analysis, arbitrage opportunities, portfolio optimization, and machine learning to find the right investments, Zubair said. He declined to provide more specifics.The quartet began meeting to discuss cryptocurrencies last year, when they each invested in coins independently. Hamid said that last fall she started the Harvard Undergraduate Blockchain Group, in which more than 300 students have shown an interest. Hamid won’t say how much she made on crypto, but a friend was impressed enough with the returns to spur her to action.“He was instantly, instantly intrigued,” she said. “He said, ‘Start something and I’ll invest.’ I realized, ‘Why not?”’To get started, Hamid reached out to attorney John Lore, who says he has helped set up more than 30 crypto hedge funds.“Emerging cryptocurrency funds see this an opportunistic time to start up the infrastructure to set up a fund,” according to Lore, who said he gets about six or eight inquiries daily from aspiring crypto fund managers. “What that means is that at least fund managers are very bullish on the long-term aspects of cryptocurrency in varied investment strategies.”Lore is working with Hamid pro bono. The two also plan to launch the Global Center for Investment Fund Studies, to help new fund managers raise capital, at Harvard this month. Setting up a fund can involve filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as finding a fund administrator and, potentially, a custodian.Quick Take: Bitcoin’s Wildest Days Are Over as Regulators CircleIt costs a lot to run a fund, so most need to be targeting $25 million to $50 million, Lex Sokolin, global director of fintech strategy at Autonomous Research, said in an email. Still, he said, Plympton’s founders may enjoy a “generational advantage.”“If crypto is a millennial or Gen Z game, then knowing how to be foolish in the same ways as everyone else is valuable -- it allows you to benefit from reflexivity in the markets,” he said. At the same time, their inexperience may hurt them, he added.“If it’s not grounded in reality and compliance, the project will get eaten up by the increasingly sophisticated competition,” Sokolin said.Hamid’s parents moved to the U.S. from Syria 22 years ago to continue their medical education. She graduated valedictorian from a Houston public high school before heading to Massachusetts for college, where she studies psychology, as does Zubair, a senior.While they aren’t business majors, the four do have some relevant experience. Zubair interned for an asset manager in Chile and a bank in New York. Scott Sussex, another founder, is a junior in applied math, and Omar Sorour is a senior in neurobiology and economics. Unlike Gates and Zuckerberg, the seniors plan to graduate. Then they can work on Plympton full-time, Hamid said.“Balancing running a fund and school is challenging, but part of the reason we have four co-founders, that’s allowed us to get where we have given time constraints with school,” Sussex said in a phone interview. “It’s meetings that start at dinner at go into the evenings, a lot of the weekends.”Sussex spent April 15, his birthday, in meetings to work on the fund.“This was my crypto-related birthday activity,” he laughed.

2018-04-20T07:56:19.275Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-20/crypto-exchange-binance-denies-it-will-introduce-dollar-trading
Binance, the world’s biggest cryptocurrency exchange by traded value, denied reports that it will allow users to buy digital tokens with dollars. The reports are “fake news,” a spokeswoman said by email.Articles claiming that Binance would introduce dollar transactions circulated on Twitter and several cryptocurrency websites on Friday, pushing up prices for so-called alt-coins including EOS and Monero. Binance currently only handles trades between cryptocurrencies, meaning clients can swap one token for another but not for a traditional currency like the dollar or the euro.EOS and Monero both rose more than 8 percent over the past 24 hours even as the gain in Bitcoin, the original cryptocurrency, was more subdued at around 2 percent, according to Coinmarketcap.com.Founded by Zhao Changpeng less than a year ago, Binance consistently ranks No. 1 on Coinmarketcap.com’s list of exchanges. It handled $2.2 billion of trading in the past 24 hours, according to the data aggregation site.

2018-04-17T17:01:53.879Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-17/how-to-make-sense-of-cryptocurrency-valuations
Bitcoin is the largest and best-known cryptocurrency, but there are dozens of other major products and hundreds of minor ones, as well as cryptoassets and tokens. Yet there is no method or established tool that allows investors to analyze and value the assets that are being created seemingly every day.What if we applied factor analysis? This powerful quantitative tool is generally used to break down the stock market
            

                1
            
         into three to six factors,
            

                2
            
         each a specially constructed portfolio. The “value” factor, for example, is long stocks with low price-to-book ratios and short stocks with high price-to-book ratios. The claim is that the long-term expected return of a diversified portfolio is explained by its exposures to these factors, so you don’t need to understand each individual stock holding to predict performance.When it comes to cryptoassets, we lack the quantity and quality of data to do as sophisticated a job of factor analysis as has been done for the stock market. Here’s an attempt, nonetheless. Statistics tell me that four factors -- that, is four portfolios -- are enough to explain the last 13 months of returns of cryptoassets. We can regard individual cryptoassets’ ups and downs as random noise that averages out.
            

                3
            
         (Full disclosure: I own Bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies.)The chart below shows the value of $1 invested in each of the four factor portfolios on Feb. 25, 2017
            

                4
            
        , on a logarithmic scale. The blue line, the Service portfolio, roughly corresponds to the price of Bitcoin over the period. But the other three portfolios show significantly different patterns. Size had the largest gains and the smallest drawdowns. Service made good money, but had the biggest crash. Quality and Coin performances were modest by crypto standards.
            

                5
            
         Only the Service factor portfolio appears to be continuing to decline rapidly, while the other three seem flattish.
            

                6
            
The Size portfolio (yellow line) has zero weight on the two megacurrencies, Bitcoin and Ethereum.
            

                7
            
         It has roughly equal weights on smaller (but still big) currencies like Ripple, Litecoin, NEM and Ethereum Classic.
            

                8
            
         Litecoin is a Bitcoin clone, and Ethereum Classic is an Ethereum fork.
            

                9
            
         Ripple and NEM are blockchains that address some of the perceived problems in Bitcoin. These are Bitcoin and Ethereum competitors that have vibrant and talented developer communities, but are more nimble than the behemoths.
            

                10
            
         The Size portfolio has increased in value three times, each time more than tripling in value, and has been flat in between.
            

                11
            
The Quality portfolio (red line) is long Bitcoin and short Ethereum.
            

                12
            
         In most categories, it is long the highest market capitalization
            

                13
            
         cryptoasset and short all the smaller ones. Although it’s up 50 percent for the period, it has doubled and fallen back twice. Because it does not show a clear pattern of outperformance, most cryptoinvestors should at least look at assets that are not market leaders in their categories.The Service portfolio (blue line) is long cryptoassets that do things, such as STEEM (social media), Factom and MaidSafe (secure data storage and transfer), Augur (prediction market), and Iconomi (manage digital assets), and is short the currencies.
            

                14
            
         One dollar invested in the Service portfolio in February 2017 grew to over $9, before falling to $3.50. This is the only portfolio to really crash, which may mean the service idea failed, or that service cryptoassets are good values.Finally the Coins portfolio (green line) is long coins, like Bitcoin and Litecoin, and short smart contracts, like Ethereum, service assets
            

                15
            
         and tokens. After some early losses, it enjoyed the steadiest run-up of any factor portfolio but was the first to decline around the end of 2017.Charts don’t tell the future, but they suggest four things to watch. First, is the second tier of Bitcoin and Ethereum challengers capable of tripling again? This event provided much of the crypto gains in 2017. Second, will category leaders outperform competitors? They did on average in 2017, but with a lot of reversals. Third, can the service providers recover from their crash? Although they seem to be headed straight down, they are still priced more than 250 percent higher than they were in February 2017. Finally, can coins repeat their low-volatility 10-month run outperforming non-coins? Or is the future in smart contracts, services and tokens?      Professionals offering actionable insights on markets, the economy and monetary policy. Contributors may have a stake in the areas they write about.    Or anything else, including the cryptocurrency market.It could be any number, but the classic Fama-French paper in 1992 used three. Subsequent authors, including new Fama-French work, usually settle on five or six, although some use more.Factor analysis uses mathematics to construct uncorrelated portfolios that capture as much of the variance in cryptocurrency price movements as possible. In this case, the four factors explained 70 percent of the variance of cryptoasset daily price movements. Additional factors each added less than 7 percent, and given the amount and quality of data, could easily have been random noise.This is when prices first broke above the levels set in early December 2013 and began their meteoric rise to December 2017 peaks. There were 13 cryptoassets in February 2017 with market capitalizations above $10 million.Both were above 50 percent for the 13 months.Although all are down from December or January peaks.The portfolios were constructed by a statistical algorithm; I looked at them afterward to give them names. So the portfolios don't correspond exactly to my descriptions.They have market capitalizations from $1 billion to $20 billion, compared with $40 billion for Ethereum and $120 billion for Bitcoin.It has not suffered much during the Bitcoin crash. Momentum investors should like its price chart; value investors beware.These are well-established and well-funded currencies implementing variants of the visions that drove Bitcoin or Ethereum. There are other cryptoassets in the same size range as these, but they have different approaches than Bitcoin and Ethereum. I discuss some of them later in the piece.It has not suffered much during the Bitcoin crash. Momentum investors should like its price chart, value investors beware.Bitcoin and Ethereum are not in the same category, but as the No. 1 and 2 cryptocurrencies they get compared a lot. Bitcoin is not higher-quality than Ethereum, except in terms of liquidity and mainstream familiarity.High market capitalization does not always indicate quality, of course, but the cryptoassets that have been the most successful in their categories tend to be the biggest ones. So it might be more accurate to call this the “past success” portfolio.Except it is long Monero and Dash. While these are both currencies, they emphasize specific user services, privacy and speed respectively.Except it is long Iconomi, which provides services to coin users.To contact the author of this story:          Aaron Brown     at aaron.brown@privateeram.comTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Max Berley     at mberley@bloomberg.net

2018-04-20T16:17:47.784Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-20/kraken-ceo-reaffirms-schneiderman-snub-despite-n-y-registration
Kraken, one of the longest-running cryptocurrency exchanges, said its New York registration as a money-services business won’t affect its decision to ignore a request from the state’s top lawyer for detailed information about its operations.Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said Tuesday that he sent letters to Kraken and a dozen other crypto exchanges seeking information on their internal controls and how they protect customers. The“fact-finding inquiry” is part of his Virtual Markets Integrity Initiative, a program intended to “increase transparency and accountability” on platforms used to trade digital currencies and inform regulators, investors and consumers, he said. Kraken Chief Executive Officer Jesse Powell dismissed the request Wednesday in a tweet.The San-Francisco-based company is registered as a money services business in almost every state, according to the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes database. Powell, in response to questions from Bloomberg, said it doesn’t matter that one of them is New York.Registering as an MSB with Treasury “and ticking the box for all the states (including New York) years ago does not mean that we’re actually operating in New York,” Powell said Thursday in an email. “MSB is a registration, not a license, and it’s done at the federal level, not the state level. It does not expose us to New York state’s jurisdiction.”Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, fired back.“Legitimate entities generally like to demonstrate to their investors that their money will be protected," she said in a statement Friday. “This is very basic information that any credible platform should have on hand and be willing to share with their investors.”Regulators worldwide are increasingly scrutinizing cryptocurrencies as the venues on which they trade often lack basic protections of traditional investing platforms and disclosures of rules and practices vary widely, making it difficult for investors to evaluate risk, Schneiderman said. Bittrex and itBit, which also received letters, said earlier this week that they supported the attorney general’s efforts. Kraken chose another path.“Somebody has to say what everybody’s actually thinking about the NYAG’s inquiry,” Powell said in his twitter post. “The placative kowtowing toward this kind of abuse sends the message that it’s OK. It’s not OK. It’s insulting.”In 2015, New York’s Department of Financial Services created a “BitLicense,” a special permit that would apply to virtual currency exchanges, which drew criticism from Bitcoin companies for being too burdensome. The move prompted Kraken to cease operating in the state that same year, according to Powell.“We made the wise decision to get the hell out of New York three years ago,” he said in the statement. “Good luck, New Yorkers.”— With assistance by Chris Dolmetsch, and Camila Russo

2018-04-18T21:33:14.488Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jg5m5yrs
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereU.S. President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe agree to work closely on trade as speculation heats up over where Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will hold their historic summit. Yield curve angst takes center stage, while the IMF sees growing risks to global financial stability. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Market participants from Citigroup to the Federal Reserve agree that an inverted Treasury yield curve would be an ominous sign for U.S. and global growth. And with the latest bout of flattening, the reality of sub-zero spreads may soon collide with an otherwise sanguine outlook on the economy.  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard was the latest to weigh in, saying Wednesday that central bankers need to debate the yield curve right now, and that it could invert within six months. Stubbornly low long-term yields could eventually force the Fed to slow down rate hikes, unless policy makers are willing to push the curve below zero.In a joint news conference with Abe, Trump said the two countries would “work closely on trade. We will do something having to do with the imbalance.” Abe agreed there would be talks on free, fair and reciprocal trade, but said that while the U.S. is seeking a bilateral deal, Japan would prefer to work within the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The two leaders also touched on North Korea, with Abe noting that maximum pressure should be maintained on the isolated nation. The upcoming and unprecedented summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un may be held in Sweden or Switzerland, according to people familiar with the matter.The metals market remained gripped by turmoil on U.S. sanctions against Russia, with nickel and aluminum surging Wednesday. Consumers, manufacturers and traders are scrambling to secure supply cut off by Rusal, the largest aluminum producer outside China. Aluminum reached a six-year high and nickel jumped the most intraday since 2009. Alumina, a raw material needed to make aluminum, notched a fresh record. “It really is unprecedented in terms of the turmoil it’s unleashed,” Societe Generale’s Robin Bhar said. Oil surged to the highest since 2014 as American crude and fuel inventories dropped last week. Threats to the global financial system are rising, with the price of risky assets surging in a manner reminiscent of the years before the global financial crisis, the International Monetary Fund warned. Downside risks to world financial stability have increased “somewhat” over the past six months, the IMF said Wednesday in the latest edition of its Global Financial Stability Report. “Financial vulnerabilities, which have accumulated during years of extremely low rates and volatility, could make the road ahead bumpy and could put growth at risk,” said the Washington-based group.China shares will be much on Asian traders' minds Thursday, even if the Shanghai Composite managed by the end of Wednesday to close in the green. The index fell for four days through Tuesday and was down as much as 1.5 percent Wednesday — on the verge of matching the longest losing streak since a 9-day slump that ended in December 2013. There will be plenty of data excitement to captivate markets also — New Zealand first quarter CPI kicked things off by topping estimates early in the Asian morning, and there's also Aussie jobs, an Indonesian rate decision and Hong Kong unemployment figures to look forward to.  This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, and Alyssa McDonald

2018-04-17T22:50:33.738Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-17/och-ziff-s-haas-departs-hedge-fund-firm-to-join-coinbase-as-cfo
Alesia Haas, the chief financial officer at Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC, is leaving the investment firm after a year and a half to join cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase Inc.Haas will stay on at the $32 billion hedge fund firm until June 1, Och-Ziff said in a statement on Tuesday. Coinbase Chief Operating Officer Asiff Hirji said in a blog post that Haas will begin immediately, while helping with the transition at New York-based Och-Ziff.Her departure from the U.S.’s largest publicly traded hedge fund firm adds to the growing number of financial professionals seeking opportunities in digital currencies as that market gains traction among mainstream investors. Coinbase, which helps investors buy and sell Bitcoin and other major virtual currencies, will leverage Haas’s experience in the financial industry to “accelerate our goal of building a world-class financial team that scales the company through this period of profound growth,” Hirji wrote.Read more about bankers chasing digital currency riches hereCoinbase has made several big hires recently. The San Francisco-based company on Monday named Balaji Srinivasan, co-founder of Earn.com, as chief technology officer after acquiring his company. Last month, it hired LinkedIn Corp. dealmaker Emilie Choi as vice president of corporate and business development. In January, it added Tina Bhatnagar from Twitter Inc. to lead customer support as vice president of operations and technology.Och-Ziff, which has seen assets shrink and a number of executives depart as its struggled to overcome a corruption scandal, on Tuesday appointed former Credit Suisse Group AG executive Thomas Sipp as its new CFO.— With assistance by Camila Russo

2018-04-18T12:01:57.377Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-18/ritholtz-s-reads-disruption-cheap-phones-and-telling-stories
My “It's only Wednesday? Really!?” morning train reads:What are you reading?Source: ViceWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-18T06:00:12.189Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-18/barclays-hints-at-a-crypto-future-expect-big-banks-to-follow
This post originally appeared in Money Stuff.The job of a bank's trading desks is to help their clients trade the financial stuff that they want to trade. There's no especially coherent conceptual definition of what counts as "financial stuff." Part of the definition is regulatory -- if regulators say that banks can't own physical commodities or Venezuelan bonds, then banks will have trouble facilitating trading in those things, and they'll essentially fall out of the "financial" system -- but mostly it is loose and conventional. If the sorts of customers who are banks' customers want to trade a thing, then that thing becomes a financial thing, and so the banks had better start helping them trade it.Exactly what that help comprises also varies: It can mean financing (lending the customers money to buy the thing), or broking (connecting buyers and sellers to broker trades in the thing), or market-making (buying or selling the thing directly from or to customers for the bank's own account), or custody (holding on to the customers' thing for safekeeping and regulatory purposes), or derivatives (taking more complicated bets on the thing from customers), or research (writing reports about the thing). For things that are only on the fringes of "financial stuff" -- art, say -- the banks might do some financing or advising without actually setting up a trading desk or getting into the custody business. But usually it's all of those things: Clients expect banks to provide a certain customary set of services for trading whatever the customary set of financial stuff is, and once there is a critical mass of client expectation that a kind of stuff is financial stuff, then the banks had better start providing those services for it. Is cryptocurrency financial stuff? Ugh I don't know come on:Barclays Plc has been gauging clients’ interest in the British bank starting a cryptocurrency trading desk, potentially joining Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in pioneering a new business on Wall Street, according to people with knowledge of the matter. ...Demand for such services is plentiful. Hedge funds that deal with Bitcoin and other virtual currencies have been eager to find banks to handle transactions -- much like prime brokers do with securities -- and potentially serve as custodians of digital assets. Some money managers have struggled to expand into crypto, in part because of rules that prevent them from using unregulated exchanges to trade and hold investments.It is a pain for asset managers to hold Bitcoins, as we sometimes discuss around here. But that's not unique to cryptocurrencies. It's not obvious why it should be easy for a hedge fund to hold, like, aluminum either. Aluminum is ... bulky. If you are running a small hedge fund out of one room, and you buy 100 tons of aluminum, where do you put it? And the answer is that the financial system has mostly domesticated aluminum, so you don't have to actually go to the aluminum store and buy 100 tons of it and put it on a bunch of trucks and store it in your garage. Banks and exchanges have built financial products -- and, also, actual warehouses -- that let you trade aluminum without worrying about dropping it on your toe.Cryptocurrency is not there yet, but it's getting there. Futures exchanges have Bitcoin contracts that let asset managers get exposure to the price of Bitcoin without having to worry about owning Bitcoins and losing their password. But that's just a start, and if there's enough demand from clients to domesticate cryptocurrency, then it's going to be in the banks' interest to do more.By the way, the fact that banks, and bank clients, think that a thing is a financial thing doesn't mean anyone else has to like it. Beer-can producers sometimes get pretty unhappy that financial firms trade aluminum. And cryptocurrency true believers, who thought that crypto would usher in the end of the traditional incumbent financial system and the beginning of a new more democratic form of money, may be disappointed if cryptocurrency trading ends up being dominated by the likes of Barclays and Goldman Sachs.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks!To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-19T14:14:59.928Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-19/brokers-may-have-to-put-customers-first
Best interests.I went to law school and was a lawyer for a while, and as part of going to law school and being admitted to the bar you spend a lot of time thinking about fairly recondite conflicts of interest between lawyers and their clients. But there's one dumb simple conflict of interest between lawyers and their clients, which is that clients normally pay lawyers money for legal services, and lawyers want to get paid a lot, and clients do not want to pay a lot. This is a hard conflict to talk about, because, one, it is not very interesting, and two, there is not a lot you can do about it. You can say that lawyers should charge a reasonable hourly rate instead of an unreasonable one, but that doesn't actually address the conflict, which is that the lawyer will want that rate to be high and the client will always want it to be low. And you can say that lawyers shouldn't bill unnecessary hours, but it is hard to know which hours are necessary and which aren't, and the person best situated to know is probably the lawyer, and she's the one billing the hours. And so lawyers occasionally get in trouble for egregious overbilling, and law firms get their bills negotiated down all the time, but in general firms do not get in trouble for being extremely thorough in assigning associates to do legal research on a client's behalf. If in their legal judgment the lawyers think a lot of research is necessary, well, the fact that that research is also profitable for them is just a fact.This conflict is not special to lawyers, of course; it exists in pretty much every business model. The person selling the thing wants the person buying the thing to buy as much of the thing as possible for as much money as possible; the person buying the thing wants to buy as little as necessary for as little money as possible. With a lot of business models, though, the buyer has a pretty good handle on his own desires, and caveat emptor works: The salesperson at a clothing store may want me to buy more clothes than I need, but I can probably figure out roughly what clothes I need, and say no to the rest. It is harder with legal advice: The point of going to a lawyer for legal advice is probably that I don't know how much legal advice I need or how much it should cost. And so we rely on fiduciary duties: The lawyer is supposed to look out for my best interests and make sure that I get the right amount of legal advice at the right price. She is obviously conflicted in making that decision, but on the other hand she went to law school and was admitted to the bar and we assume that she is an honorable member of a profession who will put her clients' interests ahead of her own. We deal with the unresolvable conflict by telling her to resolve it in the client's best interests, and looking very stern and serious when we tell her that. Yesterday the Securities and Exchange Commission issued a big set of proposed rules to require brokers who provide investment advice to retail customers to act in the "best interests" of those customers. Here are the 407-page release proposing Regulation Best Interest, and the 471-page release proposing a new Form CRS for brokers to hand to their customers to explain their relationship, and a 38-page release on fiduciary standards for investment advisers, and a press release, and a statement from SEC Chairman Jay Clayton, and an overview from Clayton, and a sample of the rather chatty Form CRS, but maybe the best place to start is the two-page proposed Regulation Best Interest itself. Here is the substance of it:A broker, dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities to a retail customer, shall act in the best interest of the retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer making the recommendation ahead of the interest of the retail customer.That is pretty much how the rule works for lawyers too, though this is of course not legal or ethical advice. But then Reg BI -- I assume that's what we're calling it; you'd feel a bit silly actually saying "Regulation Best Interest" -- goes on to specify that that obligation "shall be satisfied" if the broker (i) "reasonably discloses to the retail customer, in writing, the material facts relating to the scope and terms of the relationship with the retail customer, including all material conflicts of interest that are associated with the recommendation," (ii) "exercises reasonable diligence, care, skill, and prudence" to make sure that the recommendation actually is in the customer's best interests, and (iii) has "written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and disclose and mitigate, or eliminate, material conflicts of interest arising from financial incentives associated with such recommendations," and to at least disclose other (non-financial) conflicts of interest (like what?). So right away: This is a rule for brokers, not for investment advisers (who have a stronger fiduciary duty). The difference is complicated but can be summed up crudely by saying that a broker gets paid a commission when you do a trade, while an investment adviser gets paid an annual fee for advice. So every time your broker calls you up and says "hey you should buy ____," she has a conflict of interest, because if you buy ____ she gets a commission, and if you don't she doesn't. That is true of lawyers and doctors and everyone else too, of course. It is a well-known conflict of interest for brokers, and a longstanding subject of regulatory attention -- when brokers recommend too many trades it is called "churning" and they get in trouble -- but it is a hard conflict to eliminate. (Except by getting rid of commissions, I guess, but the SEC says that it in its rulemaking it "sought to preserve the ability of investors to pay for advice in the form of brokerage commission.") There are also more investing-specific conflicts. For instance there is a tendency for expensive actively managed mutual funds to pay brokers who sell those funds to customers, while inexpensive passive funds tend to pay less or refuse to pay at all. And large brokerage firms often offer customers both their own products (mutual funds, structured notes, loans, whatever) and outside products (other mutual funds, stocks, whatever). The inside products are more profitable for the firm -- they get paid the commission and the management fees on the product -- so the firm often encourages its brokers to sell the inside products rather than the outside ones, in the form of higher commissions or bonuses or sales contests. Obviously if a broker gets paid more to recommend Product X than Product Y, then that creates an incentive to push Product X.There are three common ways to deal with that conflict, or any conflict really:Approach 1 -- banning the conflict -- is common in many walks of life; judges are not allowed to take bribes from litigants even if they're confident that the bribes won't influence their decisions. Approach 2 -- disclosing the conflict -- is super-common in the financial industry, but has developed a bit of a bad reputation, because regular humans do not seem to be equipped to comprehend and address the conflicts that their brokers disclose at them. "I'm getting a huge kickback to sell you this fund," the broker says, in a multi-page disclosure statement, which the investor throws away because he'd rather pay the kickback than read the disclosure statement.Approach 3 -- trusting the person with the conflict to act in the client's best interests -- is hard. It requires a lot of trust; if the person with the conflict is an expert, it is hard for outsiders to monitor her management of the conflict. In places where we take this approach (law, medicine, etc.), the people with the conflict tend to go through a long and rigorous process of socialization that is meant to select for and develop the type of person who actually will act in the client's best interests. If you just announce this approach one day -- if you say "hey from now on we will expect used-car dealers to look out for their customers' best interests" -- then people might not find it wholly credible. Reg BI is an odd hybrid. It doesn't ban financial conflicts for brokers, exactly, but it does demand that the brokers "mitigate, or eliminate" them; pages 181-183 of the adopting release contain an odd "non-exhaustive list of potential practices" to mitigate them, with things like "minimizing compensation incentives for employees to favor one type of product over another, proprietary or preferred provider products, or comparable products sold on a principal basis – for example, establishing differential compensation criteria based on neutral factors (e.g., the time and complexity of the work involved)." It requires disclosure of financial conflicts, but after long experience it doesn't really rely on it, and the adopting release repeatedly says things like "we do not believe a broker-dealer could meet its Care Obligation through disclosure alone." And it does kind of leave a lot to the broker's judgment. From the release:When a broker-dealer recommends a more remunerative security or investment strategy over another reasonably available alternative offered by the broker-dealer, the broker-dealer would need to have a reasonable basis to believe that—putting aside the broker-dealer’s financial incentives—the recommendation was in the best interest of the retail customer based on the factors noted above, in light of the retail customer’s investment profile. Nevertheless, this does not mean that a broker-dealer could not recommend the more remunerative of two reasonably available alternatives, if the broker-dealer determines the products are otherwise both in the best interest of—and there is no material difference between them from the perspective of—the retail customer, in light of the retail customer’s investment profile. If the broker, in her reasonable judgment as an expert, believes that her client should do the thing that pays her more, then she can recommend it.It's hard to know exactly where this will end up. One possibility is that it won't do much: Brokers will be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for just about anything, and so they'll be able to get away with most of the conflicts they have now. Another possibility is that it will overcorrect: Brokers will think it's too risky to recommend anything but cheap passive index funds, and so the range of investment advice will contract. From the adopting release:We are sensitive to the potential that, in order to meet their obligations under the proposed Regulation Best Interest, broker-dealers may, for compliance and business reasons, determine to avoid offering certain products or limit recommendations to only certain low-cost and low-risk products that would appear on their face to satisfy the proposed best interest obligation. We emphasize that is not the intent of this proposal ... A third possibility is that it will ... work? That mitigating a few egregious conflicts of interest, and telling brokers that their job is now to act in their clients' best interests, will just encourage brokers to do that, that brokers will take their new responsibility seriously, and that the culture of retail brokerage will shift from being a sales culture to being a helping culture. It seems like a lot to ask from a two-page regulation. But it does seem to be what the SEC is asking.VIX manipulation?There's a classic form of market manipulation where you own a derivative on, say, gold, and it pays out 1,000 times the price of gold at a particular time, and you go into the market and buy 100 ounces of gold at that particular time to push the price up, and if you overpay for the gold by $5 and it pushes the price up by $5, then you lose $500 on your gold and make $5,000 on your derivative, and so it is worth it, but it is generally considered to be cheating, when you put it like this.On the other hand there are other things that are not cheating that look a lot like this. If your derivative is expiring at the particular time, and you want to continue to have exposure to gold after the derivative expires, you might decide to buy gold right at the expiration time in order to maintain your exposure, which might push up the price of the derivative at settlement. If your derivative is an option, then your model might require you to dynamically hedge it, which might require you to buy a lot of gold right near the expiration time. Or, you know, right around the expiration time, you might get a random hankering to buy gold. No one could prove you didn't, right?The CBOE Volatility Index -- the VIX -- is a thing on which there are derivatives (notably, VIX futures), except that instead of being a particular thing it is a mathematical combination of options on the S&P 500 Index. This makes the discussion above more complicated and less transparent: Depending on the circumstances, buying a lot of one S&P 500 option right at the time that VIX futures expire could easily move up the price of the futures enough to make your losses on the option worth it. And you occasionally see claims that that happens; we have talked about them before.Here's the latest, from yesterday:The VIX, which derives its price from S&P 500 options, was sailing along without incident until about 9 a.m. in New York, when it spiked as much as 11 percent in about an hour’s time. The jump coincided with a Cboe auction in which a monthly settlement value is set for the gauge, one that is critical to owners of some of the most popular futures in the country. ...Pravit Chintawongvanich, head of derivatives strategy at Macro Risk Advisors, saw evidence the VIX was pushed higher intentionally. Among other things, roughly $2.1 million was spent in the runup to the settlement on “extremely irrelevant” options that were tied to a 50 percent drop in the S&P 500.If you paid $2.1 million for those options and they turn out to be worthless, but you owned $20 million or so worth of VIX futures that expired yesterday, then that could have been a good manipulation trade. "These far downside options have a disproportionately large effect on the VIX settlement," points out Chintawongvanich in a client note.Or it could have been something else, whatever:“You can always find people that argue that this is just a normal thing to happen -- market makers need to unload their inventory, and they happened to have too many far downside options this time around,” Chintawongvanich said. “These are all legitimate explanations. We’ll probably never know who did it.”Well! I am not sure I quite share that fatalism. It is correct in a narrow sense, which is that it is quite difficult for you or me or Chintawongvanich to infer manipulative intent from trading activity. The buyer of those options could have been a long futures speculator trying (successfully) to push up the price of his futures, or a futures trader trying to roll her exposure into the underlying, or a doomsayer genuinely betting on a massive near-term drop in stock prices, or someone who meant to spend $21,000 on S&P 500 puts and pushed the wrong button, or someone pursuing a fiendishly complicated multi-leg strategy in a dozen different markets that happened to have touched mysteriously on the S&P 500 options market at a critical time yesterday. But it does look weird, and someone could find out more about it. CBOE, the exchange where the VIX futures are traded, or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates it, could find out who bought those options and send them a polite note asking what was up. They could perhaps examine some emails and chats, maybe do a keyword search for words like "manipulate" or "bang" or "gun" or "hahaha they'll never catch me" or misspellings thereof. Manipulation is fundamentally an issue of intent, and the way you prove intent is by (1) noticing unusual trading and then (2) finding the dumb chat where a trader says "I intend to manipulate, hope it works!" Crypto blockchain etc.Ten years ago, Warren Buffett made a bet that the S&P 500 Index would outperform a group of hedge funds, and it felt like we'd never hear the end of it. Buffett won his bet at the end of last year, which was a relief, but another hedge-fund manager made a grab for publicity by offering to do the same bet all over again for another 10 years. No thank you, said Buffett, mercifully for all of us. But now there's this guy!In 2015, Chinese entrepreneur Sam Ling and his partner spent $2.35 million bidding on a private lunch with Warren Buffett, hoping to get some investment advice from the legendary investor. ..."Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin are too volatile, and that's why we are launching cryptocurrency indexes," Ling told CNBC. "Over the past six months, our index has a lower decline than bitcoin during corrections, but has outperformed bitcoin by 50 to 80 percent during upsurges."And:"Warren Buffett just won a 10-year bet that an index fund would outperform a collection of hedge funds over that time," said Ling. "And I want to make a bet with him that my cryptocurrency index will outperform his portfolio over the same period."Imagine hearing about this one for 10 years. The nice thing about the hedge-fund bet is that it was on a non-transparent selection of five funds-of-funds, so you only really found out who was winning about once a year, and once Buffett got up a head of steam there was not a lot of suspense left. (His counterparty, Ted Seides, ended up conceding here at Bloomberg View eight months early.) But with an index of cryptocurrencies you can check who's winning every day -- every minute, if you want -- and, worse, they'll probably be so volatile that, at least early on, the lead will change hands frequently. "Warren Buffett is winning -- wait, losing -- no, winning -- losing now -- winning again -- his bet against cryptocurrencies," the headlines will read, if he takes the bet, which please, I beg of him: no.Elsewhere, here are some horrible sentences from a U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission enforcement action:In or around October 2017, as part of an exit strategy, the Defendants began to migrate their fraudulent business model away from binary options into a new fraudulent scheme in an effort to conceal the Blue Bit fraud. Kantor contacted at least two Blue Bit customers who had large account balances and told them that he was getting out of the binary options business. Kantor told these customers that he had selected them because they were among his top 21 Blue Bit customers and that he, therefore, recommended that they authorize him to transfer at least part of their Blue Bit account balances to another company with which he had recently become affiliated.Kantor said that the new company was called Bitsblockchain and that it offered customers the chance to purchase its new virtual currency called ATMC.I tell you what: If you ever get a call from your binary-options broker telling you that he is getting out of the binary-options business and into the virtual-currency business, what I want you to do is go to the bank, withdraw all of your money, put it in a box, and mail the box to me. The downside is that you won't have your money anymore, but the upside is that I will have your money, and let's face it, if you're buying binary options from someone who also wants to sell you virtual currency, you're not going to have your money for very long anyway.Speaking of efficient ways to make your money disappear:Investors in cryptocurrency startup Savedroid are wondering whether the founder ran off with their money, the site has been hacked, or if it’s all part of an elaborate joke.A South Park meme with big, block letters saying "And It’s Gone," was the only thing on the company’s website on Wednesday.Oh it's an elaborate joke all right.Things happen.People are worried about inverted yield curves. Selling to America: the radical makeover of Goldman Sachs. Sanctions Fallout Upends Metals as Aluminum, Nickel Burst Higher. Matt Zames Named President of Cerberus Capital Management. Katie Martin does not really run Vomiting Camel Asset Management. SoftBank Fixes Four Years of Tax Filings After Failing to Report Some Earnings. Rob Gronkowski Acquires Stake in Gronkowski (the Horse). Morgan Stanley's Morgan Stanley business cards are for sale on Craigslist.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-18T11:30:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-18/a-133-million-bet-on-a-cryptocurrency-designed-to-be-boring
Digital currencies are risky, volatile investments, and that’s what speculators love about them. But a group of Silicon Valley venture capitalists and Wall Street fixtures are spending $133 million on a cryptocurrency that’s boring by design.The concept is called Basis. The startup behind it wants to create an “algorithmic central bank,” inspired by economic principles that underpin fiat currency to adjust supply and minimize price swings. “We’ve designed this to be a cryptocurrency but without the volatility that we believe has prevented popular adoption to date,” said co-founder Nader Al-Naji.Basis said Wednesday that it sold $133 million in a pre-sale coin offering to the venture capital arms of Alphabet Inc. and Bain Capital, as well as Andreessen Horowitz, Foundation Capital and Lightspeed. Stanley Druckenmiller, a billionaire hedge fund manager, and Kevin Warsh, a former governor of the U.S. Federal Reserve, also bought in.Economists have supported Basis’s thesis that drastic price fluctuations common among digital currencies will limit their mainstream appeal as a place to store money long-term. Late last year, Bitcoin rose to nearly $20,000 before crashing below $7,000 in just a few months.But Basis’s approach has drawn skepticism. Preston Byrne, a blockchain consultant, described the project, formerly known as Basecoin, as “the worst idea in cryptocurrency.” He argues that the startup over-promises on the potential and its implementation has little in common with a central bank.

2018-04-13T15:46:43.947Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-13/bitcoin-s-best-week-of-the-year-is-helping-to-ease-plunge-pain
Bitcoin HODLers are seeing some light in the bear-market tunnel.While it remains to be seen whether it’s the end of this year’s slump, the 20 percent gain over the last five days has them cheering. The largest cryptocurrency posted its biggest weekly advance since just before it peaked at almost $20,000 in December. Other large cryptocurrencies such as Ether, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin also gained.Bitcoin is inching back up after it slumped 52 percent in the first quarter, its worst start of a year ever. The approaching deadline to report taxes in the U.S., which means investors are done selling crypto to pay off outstanding balances, and a squeeze against a record short position on Bitcoin are adding to the rally, said John Spallanzani, a portfolio manager at Miller Value Partners.Regulatory concerns as authorities from China to the U.S. tightened their grasp in the industry have weighed on prices, while social media giants like Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. banned advertisements on digital coin sales. There was also speculation that the trustee of failed exchange Mt. Gox was selling its bitcoin to pay back creditors.“News flow had turned less negative on balance, most of the tax selling had finished and there was a sizable short position that had been accumulated so a few large players took note and once we broke above technical resistance it was off to the races,” Spallanzani said.Read More: ‘Take a Wild-Ass Guess’: Crypto Confusion as Tax Deadline NearsCryptocurrencies may also be gaining as larger investors enter the market, hedge fund Pantera Capital Management said in a note to investors Thursday, where they also called a bottom to the current bear market and recommended investors buy Bitcoin. George Soros, the billionaire investor who called cryptocurrencies a bubble in January, was said last week to have authorized his $26 billion family office to trade digital assets.Fundstrat Global Advisors’s Tom Lee says the recent lows levels mirror the 2013 to 2015 trough.“The risk/reward for BTC is still asymmetrically positive,” Lee said in a note Friday. “As we discussed recently, we think capital gains related tax selling played a factor in the recent weakness (not the only crypto to fiat outflow driver, Mt Gox is another) and these pressures should be alleviating soon.”For more on bitcoin, check out the Decrypted podcast: 

2018-04-18T11:57:52.990Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2018-04-18/russia-s-war-on-telegram-expands-to-google-amazon-battlefields
Russia’s attempts to ban access to the Telegram messaging service threaten to drag U.S. tech giants including Alphabet Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. into the war with founder Pavel Durov as he turns to proxy servers to bypass the blocking measures.Russian communications regulator Roskomnadzor has already blocked 18 Google and Amazon sub-networks that Telegram used to avoid restrictions, the watchdog’s head Alexander Zharov told the Izvestia daily on Wednesday. More than 15 million IP addresses were blocked as a result, making some third-party internet resources unavailable in Russia, according to Qrator Labs.Durov rejected as “unconstitutional” Russian officials’ demands to turn over encryption keys to allow the Federal Security Service, known as the FSB, to access users’ messages on Telegram to intercept communications of terrorists. Roskomnadzor started blocking access to the messenger on Monday, after a Moscow court ruled last week that Durov was in breach of Russian law.Telegram’s Russian founder fought back, offering to pay administrators of proxy servers in bitcoins to help bypass restrictions and saying he plans to spend millions of dollars on what he called “Digital Resistance.” Telegram “remained available for the majority of Russia’s residents” despite the blocking attempts, Durov said Wednesday on Twitter.Roskomnadzor last year blocked the Zello internet walkie-talkie service for failing to comply with Russian law even though it also “tried to hide behind Amazon IP addresses,” Zharov told Izvestia. The watchdog may consider blocking Facebook Inc. if a probe to be completed by the end of this year shows that it doesn’t comply with Russian laws, he said, according to the newspaper.The regulator is also demanding that Apple Inc.’s App Store and Google Play remove the Telegram app from their online stores in Russia, Zharov said.Google’s press office declined to comment. Amazon’s European press office didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking comment.What’s increasingly a battle of wills between Russia and the internet prompted support for Durov from Edward Snowden, the former U.S. intelligence contractor given asylum by the Kremlin. Roskomnadzor’s “mad quest to punish” Telegram for protecting users’ privacy led to enormous numbers of unrelated sites being blocked “in a morally and technically ignorant censorship effort,” Snowden said Tuesday on Twitter.Any moves by Google or Amazon to halt Telegram’s access to their platforms or to remove its app from their stores would mean “they are witting collaborators in a censorship campaign, not victims of it,” Snowden said.

2018-04-18T14:29:44.074Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-18/investors-want-to-buy-a-lot-but-not-pay-a-lot
Slippage.Basically the way I think about U.S. equity market structure is:The trick is that the real investors want to be deceived, but not, you know, deceptively. You can't just lie to them. So when Barclays Plc showed users of its dark pool a bubble chart of the different user types, and deleted the bubble for a big high-frequency trader, it got in trouble. When Bank of America told investors that it was filling their orders out of its inventory to shield them from high-frequency traders, but was actually shopping those orders to the standard lineup of high-frequency traders, it got in trouble. You want to create a vague sense of protection from high-frequency traders without coming out and saying "there are no high-frequency traders here," if there are.This pleasant self-deception is perhaps a symptom of a more general issue in market structure, which is:The way modern high-speed electronic markets work is that there is a price for a stock, and you can buy 100 shares immediately at that price, but if you want to buy 10,000 shares immediately you will pay way, way, way more than that price. The people selling you that stock are thinly capitalized electronic high-frequency traders who are not interested in getting short 10,000 shares while there is a huge buyer in the market; they'll sell you 100 shares cheaply if they think that the next trade will be the other way, but if you are just buying a ton then they assume the stock is going up, and they preemptively raise their prices to avoid being on the wrong side. If you are a real investor who frequently buys 10,000 shares at a time, this is a frustrating dynamic. You want to buy stock at the market price. You don't want to pay more just because there is a big buyer (you) for the stock. You tend to think that the high-frequency traders' efforts to notice big buyers and raise their prices are unsporting, even "front-running," and you do stuff to avoid tipping them off, like breaking up your orders and timing them carefully and trading in dark pools. And of course the real dream is to find a place to buy 10,000 shares of stock where there are no high-frequency traders and where the price doesn't move. But then you are left with the problem above: The places where there are no high-frequency traders are not the places where you can buy 10,000 shares of stock quickly.Anyway here's a story about how Steven Cohen's Point72 Asset Management LP's venture-capital arm invested in Imperative Execution Inc., a new dark-pool company founded by a former Point72 trader who "said he waged a daily battle to prevent slippage from hurting his profits":Many big investors say HFT erodes their profits. That’s because prices often drop when a large player is selling, or rise when the large player is buying—a phenomenon called “slippage” that’s often blamed on speedy traders.Slippage is “a multibillion-dollar-a-year problem” for the hedge-fund industry, said Matthew Granade, managing partner of Point72 Ventures.If you conceptualize "high demand causes prices to go up" as a problem, then you will look for solutions. (If you conceptualize it as "economics," then you will be like "umm right sure.") One popular solution is batch auctions, which Imperative will apparently try, except also with "artificial intelligence": A key feature is that it only executes trades at discrete points in time, rather than continuously, the way exchanges work. The length of the intervals varies randomly, which Imperative says will keep the speedy traders from figuring out a pattern and gaming the platform’s design.The idea of “non-continuous” trading venues isn’t new. But Imperative says it has added a new element by using artificial intelligence, or AI. Its systems will monitor for whether trades on IntelligentCross are causing stock prices to move, and adjust the length of its intervals to minimize such slippage, using AI-powered software.It seems to me that slippage is not, in its essence, a technical problem. The problem is that real investors want to buy a lot of stock instantly. If there were exactly offsetting selling interest from other real investors, at exactly the same time, then the real buyer could trade with the real seller in size without moving the price. That would be a delightful, and somewhat strange, coincidence. (If an index fund is buying a stock, it seems unlikely that another index fund is selling it.) Otherwise, though, you have genuinely competing desires. The real investors want to trade large size without moving the price, to be able to hide their intentions from high-frequency traders. The high-frequency traders want to be able to respond rapidly to information about supply and demand. Most of what you can do to make your venue appealing to real investors -- making it less continuous, less informative, so that less information about their intentions is available -- makes it less appealing to high-frequency traders. Which is fine! Unless you want your real investors to be able to trade. Funded collars. Here is a story in the Financial Times about funded collars, and who could resist a story about funded collars? "'Oligarchs use this product; a lot of Russians and Ukrainians,' said one senior banker," so there is that. (Disclosure: I used to work on a structured-equity-derivative desk that did this sort of thing, though I don't think I ever actually did a real funded collar, and certainly not for an oligarch.) But a funded collar is actually a fairly simple corporate-equity-derivative product, as these things go, that nonetheless manages to throw off a lot of magic. A funded collar is just:Step 6 is the first piece of magic. If you own stock, and you come to a bank for a loan, it will give you a margin loan. But your stock is volatile, so lending against it is risky, so the bank won't lend you the full value of the stock:In margin loans, banks are typically willing to lend up to half the value of the borrower’s shares. The borrower then has to pay “margin calls” in cash if the share price drops significantly, with banks seizing the stock if the price drops too heavily for the borrower to keep up with the payments.But if you own collared stock, and you go to the bank that wrote you the collar for a loan, it will happily lend you more money. (Generally it will lend you the full amount of the put strike, e.g. $80, perhaps minus some time value.) And the reason for this is that your collared position is absolutely guaranteed to be worth at least $80. It is risk-free, so the bank can lend against it. The magic is that the bank has created the risk-free exposure: By writing the put option itself, the bank has guaranteed the price, and so the bank is happy to lend against that guaranteed price. It has transformed lending risk into equity option risk, which tends to be an easier risk to understand and manage. But on the lending side, the risk has simply disappeared.I submit to you that that is a nifty trick. But here's another one:While the structure has long existed as a way for investors to raise money from their existing holdings, it has more recently become a popular way of amassing a fresh stake in a company. Investment banks typically hedge their collar position by shorting the stock — borrowing it and selling it on — so they can sell the shares directly to the client to help them build their stake.When I say that equity option risk is easy to understand and manage, I mean that there is a well-understood and widely accepted formulaic method for pricing and hedging equity options. Basically, if you are short a put (as the bank is here), or long a call (as the bank also is here), your hedge is to sell short a specified percentage of the underlying shares. So if the client has bought a collar on a million shares of stock, the bank might have to hedge that by selling short 700,000 shares of stock. (It will then adjust the hedge by selling more stock, or buying some back, as the stock price moves.) The bank can just sell those shares into the market, though that creates slippage and might also have some legal issues depending on who exactly is getting the funded collar.But there is an alternative: The bank can sell the shares to the client. The client has 1 million shares worth $100 million. She collars those shares and borrows $80 million against them from the bank. As a result of the collar, the bank happens to have 700,000 shares to sell. Those shares sort of came from nowhere: I mean, it borrows them from some stock lender, but in a sense they were created to offset the collar position that the bank entered into. (In a very deep sense the shares were sold by the client, synthetically, in the form of the collar.) And then it sells them to the client for $70 million. The client has used her existing stock position to create (1) a new stock position and also (2) the money to pay for it. It's pretty neat! Hovnanian.We have talked a few times about the Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. trade, where Blackstone Group LP's credit unit, GSO, offered attractive funding to the company in exchange for its agreement to do a quickie default on some of its debt to trigger credit-default swaps that GSO owns, and to issue weird new bonds to create a large payout on those CDS. We have talked, among other things, about the aesthetic appeal of this transaction, and about the questionable legal arguments against it, but also about how it might be kind of bad for the future of the CDS market if CDS buyers can engineer nonsense like that. But the implications are even bigger: This trade might make for awkward lunches for Lloyd Blankfein.Lloyd Blankfein and Jon Gray, two of the most powerful figures on Wall Street, sat down for lunch last month, just as tensions between their firms were ratcheting up.It was a friendly chat between Blankfein, head of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Gray, heir apparent of Blackstone Group LP, that veered toward a thorny matter. At issue: a controversial trade involving credit-default swaps that has riveted players in the vast derivatives market -- and set Goldman and Blackstone on a collision course.Gray questioned Goldman Sachs’s opposing role in the deal, which had spilled into public view, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Blankfein stood his ground, expressing disagreement with the way it was structured.Disclosure, I used to work at Goldman, and I certainly want Blankfein to enjoy his lunch, but I think I am team Blackstone here. You can't "disagree" with how this trade was structured. The first-order question is, did it work? Did it follow all the rules in a way that actually created the payout that GSO desired? If it worked -- and my sense is it did, though it is not final yet -- then the next question is, are you the sort of financial institution that is down with doing creepy things that technically follow the rules even though they kind of surprise everyone, or are you not? I do not think that, at this late date, you can show up to lunch and be all "Goldman Sachs would never take advantage of a clever reading of the documents!" Sure sure they have the friendly consumer-loan business now, and Clarity Money and Honest Dollar, but the Goldman Sachs I know was also pretty good at reading documents. Crypto exchanges.Here's the beginning of a press release from New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman:A.G. Schneiderman Launches Inquiry Into Cryptocurrency “Exchanges”Virtual Markets Integrity Initiative Seeks to Improve Transparency and Accountability of Major Cryptocurrency Trading Platforms to Protect Virtual Currency InvestorsAG’s Office Sends Letters to 13 Virtual Currency Trading Platforms or “Exchanges” Requesting Disclosures on Their Operations, Use of Bots, Conflicts of Interest, Outages, and Other Key IssuesI have to say the scare quotes on "exchanges" seem unnecessarily harsh? Like I am willing to concede that a Bitcoin exchange is a Bitcoin exchange. It is not a nationally registered securities exchange, sure. Perhaps -- if for instance it trades initial-coin-offering tokens that count as securities under U.S. law -- it ought to be, and the scare quotes are a low-key intimation of illegality. And I realize that electronic trading platforms for many financial products -- currencies, Treasury bonds -- tend not to use the name "exchange," in order to avoid confusion with the particular set of characteristics (national registration, public quotes, membership, etc.) that official securities exchanges have. But colloquially I have no problem with saying that a place where you can go to trade things is an "exchange," and the fact that cryptocurrency exchanges are new, that they trade something that was not previously traded on exchanges (or at all), is not necessarily a knock on them.On the other hand there are lots of other concerns! The thing about established securities exchanges is that there are rules around transparency and market manipulation and asset custody and so forth. The thing about cryptocurrency exchanges is ... well, they might have rules like that, but there certainly aren't uniform rules that are set and enforced by government agencies. So here is Schneiderman's questionnaire for the crypto exchanges, which has questions like:Describe any practices, procedures, safeguards, and monitoring your platform has in place to detect, prevent, block, or penalize suspicious trading activity or market manipulation, the types of customer behavior or trading activity that qualifies for such response, and when such measures came into effect.And:Describe the precautions you have in place to safeguard the Fiat Currency, Virtual Currency, or financial instruments in your custody. They're fair questions! Also I mean they are basic stuff. You'd hope that customers of the exchanges would have asked similar questions, and that the exchanges would have robust answers ready and perhaps already published on their websites. But I wonder sometimes if Bitcoin's emphasis on trustlessness and decentralization makes its users too willing to trust centralized intermediaries. "It's trustless," I suspect the thought process goes, "so why should I bother asking how they keep my money safe?"Elsewhere in crypto.Ahahaha sure:The embattled political data firm Cambridge Analytica quietly sought to develop its own virtual currency in recent months through a so-called initial coin offering, a novel fund-raising method that has come under growing scrutiny by financial regulators around the world. ...The goal of Cambridge Analytica’s own coin offering? Raise money that would pay for the creation of a system to help people store and sell their online personal data to advertisers, Brittany Kaiser, a former Cambridge Analytica employee, said in an interview. The idea was to protect information from more or less what the firm did when it obtained the personal data of up to 87 million Facebook users.Since the scandal of Cambridge Analytica's use of Facebook data broke, there has been some debate over whether the company is a shadowy organization that has developed powerful political-manipulation techniques that delivered the U.S. presidency to Donald Trump, or a dumb useless scam that wasted gullible donors' money. This is a data point!Elsewhere: "Icelandic bitcoin heist suspect escapes jail and flees the country — on the same plane as the Prime Minister."Aptonyms.Well: Morgan Stanley just left Morgan Stanley. No, really.The fixed-income trader, who just happens to share a name with the 82-year-old Wall Street firm, has left the bank, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Stanley joined in 2012 after graduating from Boston College, according to records from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.Stanley, whose middle name is Adam, didn’t return LinkedIn messages seeking comment on his next career move. A spokesman for the New York-based bank declined to comment.My first reaction was: I can't believe he wasn't at Goldman Sachs. Honestly I hope there was a bidding war for his talents/name among the big banks. But answering the phone "Goldman Sachs, this is Morgan Stanley" is just too good. Obviously "Morgan Stanley, this is Morgan Stanley" is pretty good too. "Yes I'd like to talk to the trader who just sold me these bonds." "Yes that's me." "Who are you?" "Morgan Stanley." "No I know but what is your name?" "Morgan Stanley." You could put off a lot of customer complaints that way. He's not an investment banker; he's an investment bank. I'll be disappointed if he left for a tech startup like everyone else. What if he left to found his own boutique advisory firm? What if he's calling it Morgan Stanley & Co.? Elsewhere in names, here is a breakfast-themed story about Greg Coffey and Louis Bacon that may not be to all tastes but that I grudgingly admired. Artificial intelligence.At this point it's kind of a boring cliché to make fun of Google for its erstwhile motto "Don't Be Evil," but still it is jarring to see former Google CEO and current Alphabet Inc. board member Eric Schmidt argue that we need to develop intelligent robots that can kill humans?At a Tuesday hearing of the House Armed Services Committee, Schmidt gave a strong endorsement of the Pentagon’s proposal for a new AI center and its collaboration with technology companies."The nature of AI is a long-term technology that will be useful for defensive and perhaps offensive purposes as well," said Schmidt, who also chairs the Defense Department’s Innovation Board.Yep definitely important to teach the computers to wage offensive war, what could possibly etc.Things happen.Morgan Stanley First-Quarter Profit Rises to Record High. (Earnings release.) The Biggest U.S. Banks Made $2.5 Billion From Tax Law—in One Quarter. Bill Ackman Calls Newell’s Icahn Agreement ‘Deal With the Devil.’ Russia Sanctions Throw Global Aluminum Industry Into Chaos. United Trims Some of Its Capacity Growth Plans for This Year. I.R.S. Website Crashes on Tax Day as Millions Tried to File Returns. Jeremy Grantham saw his shadow so it's seven years of bear markets. "Swipe right for inequality.' ‘Nut Rage’ Redux: Another Korean Air Executive Is in Hot Water. Flood of tumbleweeds submerge California town. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-13T14:17:16.272Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-13/becoming-a-permian-bitcoin-billionaire-may-be-just-a-dream
Could turning flared gas in Texas’s Permian Basin into electricity to power bitcoin mining be a solution for shale producers?One analyst raised the idea as the oil-rich Permian has become one of the worst natural gas markets in the U.S., given a pipeline shortage that’s leaving gas trapped in the region. The basin could add an "astounding 25 bcfd of wet gas to 2025, which will mostly be treated as a byproduct based on oil price and possibly even flared! What could producers do instead with this free gas?" Bernstein analysts led by Jean Ann Salisbury ponder in a note to clients.They’re not the first to look to bitcoin, either. Western Canada-based Iron Bridge Resources Inc. launched a wholly owned cryptocurrency mining and hosting operation in January called Iron Chain Technology. It was created to combat a weak Canadian natural gas market, though analysts felt is was too early to speculate on the profitability of this new venture. AltaCorp Capital even dropped coverage of Iron Bridge, citing unfamiliarity with the subject of cryptocurrency mining.But after Bernstein ran its back-of-the-envelope math on Permian producers potentially turning to bitcoin mining, the firm concluded that the "fleeting thought of becoming a Permian-bitcoin billionaire will remain, for now, a dream." The analysts found that given the total number of bitcoin is capped at 21 million, with 17 million already in circulation, the difficulty to mine is expected to increase exponentially, along with the power required. “If we account for this increasing difficulty, we make money only if the average price over 15 years is $18,788,” the analysts said.Natural gas takeaway in the Permian will be in focus for investors as first-quarter earnings begin. Guggenheim Securities noted early in February that Centennial Resource Development Inc.’s CEO Mark Papa has concerns on 2019 intrastate and interstate residue gas takeaway.

2018-04-13T08:21:18.415Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-13/bitcoin-has-another-quick-spike-as-weekly-rally-surpasses-20
Bitcoin jumped suddenly for the second time in as many days, extending its weekly gain to more than 20 percent.The world’s most traded cryptocurrency climbed nearly $400 in the span of an hour on Friday to $8,175, hitting its high of the day around 9 a.m. in London. While the trigger for the advance was unclear, it followed a similarly rapid gain of more than $1,000 on Thursday.

2018-04-18T12:29:08.888Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-18/amazon-google-and-facebook-all-face-pressure-in-russia
The Russian authorities' first experiment with blocking a popular messenger application -- Telegram -- is not working out so far. The web censorship agency, Roskomnadzor, has blocked millions of internet addresses to beat Telegram into submission, but it's still widely available even without any bypass mechanisms, while numerous legitimate sites have experienced downtime.The Russian social networks have exploded with sarcastic memes, but the merriment is likely misplaced. The experience will almost certainly push Russia toward the Great Chinese Firewall model, which will include reprisals on virtual private networks and Western cloud services. Roskomnadzor plans to block Facebook by the end of this year, and it will need to get better at it -- and to get more resources -- to succeed against such a formidable adversary. There's no indication that the Kremlin will deny the necessary funding.Telegram, which has about 15 million users in Russia, has been banned for its refusal to hand over encryption keys to Russia's domestic intelligence, the FSB. The messenger, which also hosts thousands of "channels" with all sorts of content, from political insiders' musings to darknet business advice, was well-prepared for Roskomnadzor's attempt to block it starting Monday. The only method Roskomnadzor has used so far to block sites was to order internet providers to cut off access to certain IP addresses. Telegram started routing users to numerous IP addresses that weren't on the censor's blacklist. They belonged to the world's leading cloud services, run by Amazon and Google.Roskomnadzor attempted to rise to the challenge. According to usher2.club, a service run by an anonymous hacker to track the number of IP addresses blocked by the censor, it went from hundreds of thousands of addresses to millions. About 16 million were being blocked at the time of this writing. The problem with this approach is that Telegram can keep using new IP addresses from the cloud providers, but the blocks inevitably affect other sites that these providers host on the same subnetworks. E-commerce businesses, a delivery service, a language school and Viber, a messenger Russia had no intention of blocking, were among the many affected; so were a couple of major banks, a payment service, the networks used by Sony Playstation and Xbox players. Even the Kremlin museums were forced to stop selling electronic tickets because of the blocks. Roskomnadzor set up a hotline for legitimate services so they could demand to be taken off the blacklist, and none has remained offline long enough to be able to sue for serious damages. Otherwise the censor has been unfazed. In an interview with the pro-Kremlin daily Izvestia, Roskomnadzor chief Alexander Zharov denied that any legitimate services suffered. The censor has demanded that Apple and Google kick Telegram out of their Russian app stores, and it's betting that the cloud service providers will stop helping Telegram with capacity to avoid repercussions. "We count on both Amazon and Google to prioritize their business over political motives," Zharov told Izvestia. "The U.S. companies must create technical conditions that will make the service unavailable in Russian territory." Zharov accused Telegram founder Pavel Durov of hiding behind the backs of legitimate resources to thumb his nose at the regulator. He pointed to the example of Zello, a Texas-based walkie-talkie app, blocked by Roskomnadzor at the request of the FSB, which alleged it was being used by terrorists. Zello deployed a similar tactic to Telegram's before it was told to stop first by Amazon and then by Google.Durov, for his part, used his Telegram channel -- accessible to most Russian users, too, despite Roskomnadzor's efforts -- to thank Apple, Google,  Amazon and Microsoft "for not taking part in political censorship." (Apple and Microsoft are included because their operating systems enabled Telegram to push constantly changing IP addresses to Russian users). But U.S. internet companies -- which already accept a host of restrictions in China -- will inevitably have to choose between continuing to keep Telegram alive in Russia and keeping other Russian clients and the revenue they bring. The memes portraying Roskomnadzor as a gun-wielding madman firing off a targetless hail of bullets into space are appealing, but the space is owned by profit-seeking corporations, and my bet is against Telegram's ability to continue its cat-and-mouse game indefinitely.Durov is prepared for that eventuality. "Russia accounts for around  7 percent of the Telegram user base, and even if we lose that entire market, Telegram’s organic growth in other regions will compensate for this loss within a couple of months," he wrote. He added that he'd started giving out Bitcoin grants to companies and individuals running proxies and VPN services that will allow Russian Telegram users to retain access to the service. These bypass options are the next fallback after the cloud tactic fails.But if Russians do start relying on proxies and VPNs en masse, it will push Roskomnadzor to take a further step toward the Chinese system, which, starting this year, includes a ban on non-state-sanctioned VPNs -- and which has long enabled censors to block VPNs by recognizing their encrypted traffic at the points where it crossed the Chinese border. That sort of action will require investment in technology the Russian government hasn't employed yet, but the logic of events suggests that it won't give up halfway.In the Izvestia interview, Zharov said his agency will start blocking Facebook by the end of this year unless it complies with a Russian legal requirement that it keep Russian citizens' data on servers physically located in Russia and removes all the content that violates Russian laws. Given Facebook's size -- it has almost twice as many users in Russia as Telegram -- blocking it won't be easy if the company decides to resist. With Telegram, Roskomnadzor is testing its capacity for making good on its threats and demonstrating to the government that additional investments might need to be made. It's also practicing negotiations from a position of force with world-leading U.S. companies. Russia doesn't have China's size and is increasingly toxic politically, but fighting the Kremlin may soon become counterproductive for these firms. Telegram, for all its popularity, is not the central issue here -- Russia's connectedness to the global internet industry is.To contact the author of this story:          Leonid Bershidsky     at lbershidsky@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Therese Raphael     at traphael4@bloomberg.net

2018-04-16T19:10:04.076Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-16/barclays-is-said-to-be-sounding-out-clients-about-trading-crypto
Barclays Plc has been gauging clients’ interest in the British bank starting a cryptocurrency trading desk, potentially joining Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in pioneering a new business on Wall Street, according to people with knowledge of the matter.Barclays has so far only done a preliminary assessment of demand and feasibility, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public. The bank said Monday it currently has no concrete plans to start such an operation.“We constantly monitor developments in the digital currency space and will continue to have a dialog with our clients on their needs and intentions in this market,” spokesman Andrew Smith said in an emailed statement.A crypto trading desk would require approval from investment bank boss Tim Throsby, and potentially Chief Executive Officer Jes Staley, given the novelty of the asset class, risk and compliance requirements, according to one of the people. No other big European investment bank is known to be building such a desk.Staley has made building up Barclays’s investment bank the centerpiece of his strategy to revive earnings. In September, Throsby vowed to reignite the unit’s “commercial zeal” and authorized the transfer of billions of dollars of capital to higher-risk trading activities from vanilla corporate lending. Bitcoin -- infamous for its wild price swings after rising to a peak of more than $19,000 in December before halving in value within four months -- could fit the bill. It traded at $8,110 on Tuesday after a seven-day streak of gains.Demand for such services is plentiful. Hedge funds that deal with bitcoin and other virtual currencies have been eager to find banks to handle transactions -- much like prime brokers do with securities -- and potentially serve as custodians of digital assets. Some money managers have struggled to expand into crypto, in part because of rules that prevent them from using unregulated exchanges to trade and hold investments.The number of hedge funds focused on crypto reached 226 in mid-February, according to Autonomous Research, up from 37 at the start of 2017. Many were formed or piled into the market as Bitcoin’s price skyrocketed last year.For now, a few big Wall Street firms let customers bet on Bitcoin through futures contracts offered by CME Group Inc. and Cboe Global Markets Inc., though such investments can be expensive, undercutting returns. Additionally, some banks have demanded clients set aside collateral equal to 100 percent of the value of their trades.Goldman Sachs is setting up a trading desk to make markets in digital currencies such as Bitcoin, which it hopes to get up and running by late June, if not earlier, people with knowledge of the matter said in December. But to do so, it still has to work out security issues including how to custody assets.Last week, a team of Barclays analysts led by Joseph Abate laid out a pricing model for Bitcoin that wasn’t exactly bullish, treating it like a disease and predicting it’s probably on the decline.The model divided the pool of potential investors into three groups: susceptible, infected and immune. The analysts assumed that when prices rise, “infections” spread by word-of-mouth. But at some point, the number of potential hosts would be used up, causing prices to plateau before eventually falling.“The most recent peak may have been the ultimate top,” they wrote. “The speculative froth phase of crypto currency investment, and perhaps peak prices, may have passed.”

2018-04-12T16:59:19.173Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-12/crypto-hedge-fund-pantera-capital-says-bitcoin-has-bottomed-out
Bitcoin’s dog days are over, says one of the biggest cryptocurrency hedge funds.Pantera Capital Management, which has more than $800 million in assets, says $6,500 was the low of this bear market and Bitcoin will stay above that price for the majority of the next year, likely surpassing the previous record of almost $20,000, according to a note sent to investors Thursday.“For those who are new to Pantera who might think a fund manager like Pantera would always be saying ‘Today’s a great day to get long,”’ wrote Pantera’s Dan Morehead and Joey Krug. “I rarely have such strong conviction on timing. A wall of institutional money will drive the markets much higher.”The fund, which started investing in Bitcoin in 2014, has only made three buy and one sell recommendations in seven years, the note said. The new call comes after Bitcoin crossed its 200-day moving average.Read More: Bitcoin Surges Most Since December After Breaching Key Levels“Traders often use that time period as it seems to be the optimal response time of human psychology,” the report said. “Long enough to stop fretting about missing the trade. Not too long that the information is lost.”For more on bitcoin, check out the Decrypted  podcast:

2018-04-17T14:33:23.902Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-17/the-mortgage-business-is-no-fun-anymore
Mortgages.A few years ago I tried to add up all the fines that Bank of America Corp. had paid for doing bad mortgage stuff. There were a lot of them, enough that, as the internet decays, the chart that I put together appears to no longer be readable. The headline number -- $68 billion of fines, settlements, etc. at the time -- was big, but more interesting to me was the repetitiveness of the fines. Countrywide Financial Corp. sold bad mortgages to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac between 2004 and 2008, and Bank of America bought Countrywide in 2008, and everyone sued, and Bank of America reached settlements with Freddie (in 2011) and Fannie (in 2013) over those mortgages. And then it reached a settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency over those mortgages in 2014. And then it lost a trial and was ordered to pay more money to the Justice Department over some of those loans, though that was later overturned. And then later in 2014 it reached a $16.7 billion settlement with the Justice Department and other agencies covering, among other things, those same loans. Bank of America basically spent the first half of this decade revisiting its mortgage misdeeds, over and over again, and paying for them each time.It must have been pretty tedious for Bank of America! I wrote at the time:A popular criticism of the modern approach to punishing bank misdeeds -- giant fines imposed on the banks, not much in the way of individual punishments and a preference for settlements rather than trials -- is that it turns the fines into just a "cost of doing business," normalizing misbehavior rather than preventing future wrongdoing.If a bank does a bad mortgage thing, and you find the person who did the thing (or who signed off on the thing, or who ran the bank when it did the thing, or whatever), and you put him in prison, then that sends a powerful message that the thing was a crime, that it was not business as usual, that it could not be tolerated. If, on the other hand, you hold no individuals responsible, but come back to the bank every year and say "hey remember that mortgage thing? that'll be another $2 billion," then arguably you send the message that the bad mortgage thing was expected in the mortgage business, and that fines for doing it are just a normal part of life.But you could say that same thing with a different emphasis. If a bank does a bad mortgage thing, and you find the person who did the thing and put him in prison, then the bank could reasonably conclude that the problem was that person, that the bad thing was anomalous, that there is nothing wrong with its mortgage business model as a whole. If, on the other hand, you come back to the bank every year and fine it a few billion dollars for the same mortgage thing, then that will send the bank a message about the costs and benefits of the mortgage business. The message is that the misconduct is not the work of a few bad criminals who are Not Like Us, but that it is endemic to the business model. The bank might reasonably conclude that frequent multibillion-dollar fines are a cost of doing business, and not worth it.Which approach is correct depends on the facts, of course. If the mortgage business is great, and reliably adds to the long-term prosperity of the nation, but occasionally a mortgage banker murders a customer, then you should probably put the murder bankers in prison and not mess with the business model. But if an aspect of the mortgage business -- say, the originate-to-distribute model that many commentators blame for creating moral hazard, loose underwriting standards and a bubble in house prices -- seems to be pervasively bad and dangerous for the broader economy, and if every bank involved in the mortgage business seems to be getting in trouble for the same sorts of misbehavior, then maybe you do want to add to the costs of doing business. Maybe the way to think about it is not as anomalous crime but as a bad business model that imposes social costs, and to force banks to internalize those costs in the form of huge and frequent fines.Anyway:One measure of how much things have changed in the last decade at Bank of America Corp.: The firm has stopped reporting fees from its mortgage business. ...After billions in fines and payouts to regulators and investors in the years after the financial crisis, Bank of America has moved away from securitizing and servicing residential mortgages. The firm originated $9.4 billion of new mortgages in the first quarter; in 2009, it topped $100 billion in one quarter.  There is still plenty of mortgage interest from loans held on Bank of America's balance sheet, "but the business of making mortgages to sell them -- the specialty of subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp. that Bank of America bought in 2008 -- has largely become a relic." Regulators and prosecutors made it incredibly tedious for Bank of America to be in that business, and now Bank of America ... just ... isn't.Of course this is not purely a story of the fines; the decline of demand for private-label mortgage securitizations matters too. Nor is it a story of the decline of the originate-to-distribute model generally: Nonbank lenders like Quicken Financial have stepped in to replace the big banks in the originate-to-distribute model. (Nor is it even that new: After all, Countrywide was an originate-to-distribute upstart that competed with the big banks, until Bank of America bought it.) Still it is worth commemorating. People spent years arguing that any mortgage fines, no matter how huge and repetitive, didn't matter, that they were less than the profits the banks made from their misconduct, that they were just a "cost of doing business," that they would change nothing. But the fines were enough of a cost of doing business for Bank of America that it's now more or less out of the business.Elsewhere, here is "Mortgage-Backed Securities and the Financial Crisis of 2008: a Post Mortem" by Juan Ospina and Harald Uhlig:We examine the payoff performance, up to the end of 2013, of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), issued up to 2008. ... We establish seven facts. First, the bulk of these securities was rated AAA. Second, AAA securities did ok: on average, their total cumulated losses up to 2013 are 2.3 percent. Third, the subprime AAA-rated segment did particularly well. Fourth, later vintages did worse than earlier vintages, except for subprime AAA securities. Fifth, the bulk of the losses were concentrated on a small share of all securities. Sixth, the misrating for AAA securities was modest. Seventh, controlling for a home price bust, a home price boom was good for the repayment on these securities. Together, these facts provide challenge the conventional narrative, that improper ratings of RMBS were a major factor in the financial crisis of 2008.The crypto.The job of a bank's trading desks is to help their clients trade the financial stuff that they want to trade. There's no especially coherent conceptual definition of what counts as "financial stuff." Part of the definition is regulatory -- if regulators say that banks can't own physical commodities or Venezuelan bonds, then banks will have trouble facilitating trading in those things, and they'll essentially fall out of the "financial" system -- but mostly it is loose and conventional. If the sorts of customers who are banks' customers want to trade a thing, then that thing becomes a financial thing, and so the banks had better start helping them trade it.Exactly what that help comprises also varies: It can mean financing (lending the customers money to buy the thing), or broking (connecting buyers and sellers to broker trades in the thing), or market-making (buying or selling the thing directly from or to customers for the bank's own account), or custody (holding on to the customers' thing for safekeeping and regulatory purposes), or derivatives (taking more complicated bets on the thing from customers), or research (writing reports about the thing). For things that are only on the fringes of "financial stuff" -- art, say -- the banks might do some financing or advising without actually setting up a trading desk or getting into the custody business. But usually it's all of those things: Clients expect banks to provide a certain customary set of services for trading whatever the customary set of financial stuff is, and once there is a critical mass of client expectation that a kind of stuff is financial stuff, then the banks had better start providing those services for it. Is cryptocurrency financial stuff? Ugh I don't know come on:Barclays Plc has been gauging clients’ interest in the British bank starting a cryptocurrency trading desk, potentially joining Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in pioneering a new business on Wall Street, according to people with knowledge of the matter. ...Demand for such services is plentiful. Hedge funds that deal with Bitcoin and other virtual currencies have been eager to find banks to handle transactions -- much like prime brokers do with securities -- and potentially serve as custodians of digital assets. Some money managers have struggled to expand into crypto, in part because of rules that prevent them from using unregulated exchanges to trade and hold investments.It is a pain for asset managers to hold Bitcoins, as we sometimes discuss around here. But that's not unique to cryptocurrencies. It's not obvious why it should be easy for a hedge fund to hold, like, aluminum either. Aluminum is ... bulky. If you are running a small hedge fund out of one room, and you buy 100 tons of aluminum, where do you put it? And the answer is that the financial system has mostly domesticated aluminum, so you don't have to actually go to the aluminum store and buy 100 tons of it and put it on a bunch of trucks and store it in your garage. Banks and exchanges have built financial products -- and, also, actual warehouses -- that let you trade aluminum without worrying about dropping it on your toe.Cryptocurrency is not there yet, but it's getting there. Futures exchanges have Bitcoin contracts that let asset managers get exposure to the price of Bitcoin without having to worry about owning Bitcoins and losing their password. But that's just a start, and if there's enough demand from clients to domesticate cryptocurrency, then it's going to be in the banks' interest to do more.By the way, the fact that banks, and bank clients, think that a thing is a financial thing doesn't mean anyone else has to like it. Beer-can producers sometimes get pretty unhappy that financial firms trade aluminum. And cryptocurrency true believers, who thought that crypto would usher in the end of the traditional incumbent financial system and the beginning of a new more democratic form of money, may be disappointed if cryptocurrency trading ends up being dominated by the likes of Barclays and Goldman Sachs.Elsewhere, remember when we talked about that crypto tween, the 11-year-old "chief executive officer" of a "universal cryptocurrency for games" called "Pocketful of Quarters"? Well here's a profile of him (he's 12 now) and his dad, a venture capitalist who "has long been a believer in the potential of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology." They very strenuously insist that the whole thing is the kid's idea and that he runs the company and they split the economics 50-50. ("Let's do 50/50 because I'm the one that has to build it," said the father during the negotiations over the equity split.) I suppose giving your kid a 50 percent equity interest in an Ethereum-based cryptocurrency venture is a novel way to pay an allowance. Smart contracts via crypto make this super doable.Direct listing.Here is a memo from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP about the Spotify Technology SA direct listing that makes this intriguing point:In one respect, Spotify went beyond what IPO companies usually do. On March 26, Spotify issued a press release providing its financial outlook for the first quarter and full year 2018.Normally, when companies do initial public offerings, they don't publish earnings guidance, because where would they publish it? If they put it in the prospectus that they use to sell stock, and if the guidance turned out to be wrong, everyone who bought stock using the prospectus would sue them. Whereas normal already-public companies publish guidance all the time, but in a non-prospectus setting, and everyone knows that it is just an estimate and not to be relied on. IPO companies don't do that, and resort to workarounds -- like orally providing guidance to their investment banks -- that have their own problems.But Spotify did something quite weird. Issued guidance, sure, but more than that: It registered its stock and was ready to go public 10 days before it started trading:Spotify’s registration statement was already effective and it was a reporting company under the Exchange Act, and it furnished the press release to the SEC on Form 6-K. Indeed, the decision to seek effectiveness on March 23 (late on a Friday, 10 days before trading began) may have been related to the desire to issue the outlook on March 26 (early on a Monday)Normally the way an IPO works is that your registration statement is declared effective right before you price the IPO. Everything happens at once; you register your shares and sell them and list them for public trading all in a single flurry of activity. This is customary and makes sense: You don't want to go public without selling the shares, and no one wants to buy the shares unless they are publicly tradable, so you synchronize everything for one big event. But Spotify just didn't. It went public in one sense (became a reporting company with an effective registration statement for resales of its stock), and then it waited a while, and then it actually did some public reporting, and then it went public in another sense (listed its stock for sale on the stock exchange) 10 days later. By the time its stock traded, it was halfway to being a normal public company already, and so could do normal public-company things like release guidance. Happy Tax Day!I don't really have any independent views on the matter, but I am pretty here for the annual bashing of TurboTax around this time. Here is Dylan Matthews at Vox:TurboTax is an evil, parasitic product that exists entirely because taxes are confusing and hard to file. Worse than that, Intuit is one of the loudest voices on Capitol Hill arguing against measures that make it easier to pay taxes. Disclosure: I use TurboTax to do my taxes, but I do feel guilty about it. It could be worse, though; here is a Wall Street Journal story about people who do their adult children's taxes. "I would rather be improving health care than to be doing something mundane like taxes," says a 31-year-old data scientist who outsources her taxes to her father but who nonetheless has time to sit down for an interview so she can be embarrassed in a national newspaper. "It’s TMI to know exactly what she’s making and what she’s not," says a 78-year-old father about doing his 48-year-old daughter's taxes.  Elsewhere: "Credit Karma Tax, the tax prep branch of the popular credit score site, said April 13 that fewer than 100 of the 250,000 most recent tax filers through the service have reported cryptocurrency transactions." I wonder what the overlap is between these three stories. I do not recall TurboTax asking me if I had sold any Bitcoins this year. And how many boomer parents doing their millennial children's taxes bother to ask about cryptocurrency trades? That seems like TMI.People are worried about stock buybacks.Not worried, I guess; cheerful:“We are expecting record buyback announcements during this earnings season given further clarity on tax reform, equity multiples are broadly attractive, and companies likely to replenish buyback programmes after the recent sell-off,” noted Dubravko Lakos-Bujas, an analyst at JPMorgan.I speculated yesterday that "The private markets have taken over the public markets' role in capital raising, but the public markets have retained their role in capital return." If you think of the stock market as just a place where mature high-cash-flow companies return money to investors then you wouldn't expect it to be especially volatile. And a straightforward mechanism for it not to be volatile would be if the companies buy back more stock whenever the stock prices go down.Things happen.Goldman Breaks From Wall Street Pack With Bond-Trading Boom. (Earnings release.) What We've Learned From Bank Earnings So Far. Trump Is Planning to Name Pimco's Richard Clarida as Fed Vice Chair. Fed’s Quarles Weighs Letting Banks Comment on ‘Stress Tests.’ Banks Get a Break on Accounting Rule. RIP Lynn Stout. U.S. Libor Replacement, Two Weeks After Debut, Has Some Issues. People are worried about the cross-currency basis turning positive. Incoming chairman to expand Rothschild in the US. Steve Wynn and Ex-Wife Elaine Wynn Settle Long-Running Litigation. Warren Gets Scant Help From Wall Street Watchdogs on #MeToo Push. Harvard, Yale Are Among Colleges Working to Repeal Endowment Tax. Cemetery tours for babies. Anthony Scaramucci's restaurant is hosting a "Sugar Daddy" dating event. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-13T09:21:20.718Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-13/bitcoin-heist-of-3-million-reported-by-india-s-coinsecure-jfxqtgou
One of India’s biggest cryptocurrency trading platforms has lost about 438 Bitcoins worth some 190 million rupees ($3 million), allegedly due to a rogue employee.An official at Delhi-based Coinsecure was extracting Bitcoin to distribute to customers and he claims the funds were lost in the process, parent company Secure Bitcoin Traders Pvt. said in a statement posted on Coinsecure’s website late Thursday. The system wasn’t hacked or compromised, it said.“Our Bitcoin funds have been exposed and seemed to have been siphoned out to an address that is outside our control,” the company said. The firm is working toward recovering the money and “we reassure all our customers that you will be indemnified from our personal funds,” it said.Coinsecure’s efforts may be hampered by India’s intensified crackdown on cryptocurrencies even as global prices rebound. The Reserve Bank of India last week banned regulated entities from providing services to users, holders and traders of cryptocurrencies.“The RBI says they don’t recognize cryptocurrencies, nor does the government,” said Karnika Seth, head of corporate and cyber laws practice at Delhi-based Seth Associates. “So the whole locus of Coinsecure can be affected in this case. Their own bonafides will need to be scrutinized.”Coinsecure said its employee Amitabh Saxena may have had a role to play in the heist. Its parent company has filed a complaint with local police and asked authorities to bar Saxena from leaving the country until the probe is completed.Saxena couldn’t immediately be reached for comment when tried through Coinsecure. The company’s director Mohit Kalra -- who signed on the complaint -- couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone Friday.Bitcoin has climbed about 18 percent this month and was trading at $8,077 as of 9:24 a.m. in London. Pantera Capital Management, one of the biggest cryptocurrency hedge funds, says $6,500 was the low of this bear market and Bitcoin will stay above that price for the majority of the next year, likely surpassing the previous record of almost $20,000.India’s Finance Ministry says virtual currencies aren’t legal tender, and have no “regulatory permission or protection.” 

2018-04-12T11:26:11.297Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-12/bitcoin-surges-after-breaking-through-7-000-barrier
Bitcoin’s back. At least for one day.The biggest cryptocurrency climbed 12 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, piercing both the $7,000 and the $8,000 levels in less than an hour early in the trading day, leaving investors guessing as to what was the catalyst. Bitcoin had swung wildly between gains and losses in December while reaching a record high of almost $20,000 before crashing.Thomas Lee, head of research of Fundstrat Global Advisors LLC, cited a combination of Santander’s plan for a blockchain-based payment application, tax-related selling almost over and speculative short investors being squeezed out of the market for the surge.Some backers of the digital token noted that the bearishness may be fading after the recent swoon that drove the price down more an 60 percent in a few months.“Serious money is now entering the market for the first time,” Jeffrey Van de Leemput, an analyst at Cryptocampus, a business that offers trading courses, said in a email.“A couple days ago I helped set up a 200k btc transaction for Chinese buyers. ... Soros etc are coming in, we will now see the start of the real bubble.”George Soros, the billionaire investor who called cryptocurrencies a bubble in January, was said last week to have authorized his $26 billion family office to trade digital assets.The spike caused short sellers to close positions, “spurring a waterfall of buy orders,” said Miguel Schweizer of cryptocurrency hedge fund Quantia Capital. Bears had amassed record shorts of more than 38,000 Bitcoin as of yesterday on trading platform Bitfinex, according to data compiled by TradingView. Short positions plunged to about 25,000 Bitcoin Thursday.Evercore ISI’s Rich Ross says Bitcoin looks attractive after its jump.“As much as it pains me to say this, the chart does look a lot like other high flying stocks that I am buying on this dip,” Ross said in a report Thursday.Read More: ‘Take a Wild-Ass Guess’: Crypto Confusion as Tax Deadline Nears

2018-04-10T08:08:47.889Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/bitcoin-is-a-disease-in-barclays-model-that-says-prices-peaked
Is the rise of Bitcoin analogous to the spread of an infectious disease?Analysts at Barclays Plc saw enough similarities to develop a pricing model for the cryptocurrency that takes its cues from the world of epidemiology. Their diagnosis: Bitcoin has probably peaked.The Barclays model divides the pool of potential Bitcoin investors into three groups: susceptible, infected and immune. It assumes that as prices rise, “infections” spread by word-of-mouth (nobody likes missing out when their friends and colleagues are getting rich). Barclays analysts led by Joseph Abate in New York explained the rest in a note to clients on Tuesday:“As more of the population become asset holders, the share of the population available to become new buyers -- the potential ‘host’ population -- falls, while the share of the population that are potential sellers (‘recoveries’) increases. Eventually, this leads to a plateauing of prices, and progressively, as random shocks to the larger supply population push up the ratio of sellers to buyers, prices begin to fall. That induces speculative selling pressure as price declines are projected forward exponentially.”A similar dynamic plays out with infectious diseases when the so-called immunity threshold is reached, “the point at which a sufficient portion of the population becomes immune such that there are no more secondary infections,” the analysts wrote.The main variables determining when Bitcoin price gains turn into price declines are the share of the population aware of the cryptocurrency and the share willing to invest (susceptible to infection), according to Barclays. Evidence from surveys in developed economies suggests that awareness is nearly universal and that the susceptible population is small, the analysts wrote.While the cryptocurrency bounced back from past price collapses in 2011 and 2013, the high level of awareness this time around signals Bitcoin may never return to its peak of nearly $20,000 in December, according to the Barclays model. The virtual currency was trading at about $6,700 on Tuesday.“We believe the speculative froth phase of cryptocurrency investment -- and perhaps peak prices -- may have passed,” the analysts wrote.

2018-04-12T08:00:02.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-12/-take-a-wild-ass-guess-crypto-confusion-as-tax-deadline-nears
If you thought trading Bitcoin was wild, try figuring out how to pay taxes on it.Cryptocurrency investors are wrestling with spotty records, tangled blockchain addresses and rudimentary guidelines issued back in the ancient days of 2014. After last year’s boom in values, many people are likely disclosing transactions for the first time, adding to confusion.Digital-coin enthusiasts and tax professionals are “freaking out” before next week’s filing deadline, said David Siegel, co-founder of a company that’s building a digital wallet for crypto investors. They’re scrambling to track down even basic information in a murky world where tokens are traded on multiple exchanges with limited recordkeeping.“The big unknown is, who owns what, when and in what jurisdiction,” said Siegel. “That’s really hard to determine in a surprising number of cases.”Last year’s 1,400 percent surge in Bitcoin lured droves of investors into the virtual currency and competitors such as Ether and Ripple. Since Bitcoin reached its peak of around $20,000 in December, before losing roughly half its value in 2018, many of those who sold last year would have gains to report.For investors in need of help, it can be difficult to find someone who can adeptly take on the filing challenge. Many tax preparers are put off by the industry’s lack of records, as well as its association with criminal activity, said David Klasing, an accountant and tax lawyer in Irvine, California, who specializes in digital currencies. Others simply don’t have the expertise.“There’s a lot of professionals that are coming in and trying to figure out how to provide services -- attorneys and CPAs and accountants,” said Irina Litchfield, an Austin, Texas-based adviser for blockchain startups and initial coin offerings. “Not a lot of them actually know how to do it well.”The Internal Revenue Service’s only guidance on digital tokens came in 2014 -- before the industry hit breakneck growth. It said that in general it treats cryptocurrencies like property, which means most sales and trades are subject to capital-gains tax.Simply buying digital coins and holding onto them shouldn’t trigger a tax bill. But just about every other crypto transaction could, at a welter of rates. Think mining, which many accountants consider taxable as ordinary income and possibly self-employment tax. Or using Bitcoin to buy a sofa on Overstock.com -- cue capital-gains taxes. Swapping one digital currency for another seems to be tax-free for this year’s return, though that will change next year with the new tax law.But then there are trickier scenarios like “air drops,” when coins magically appear out of nowhere in your digital wallet. Or “hard forks,” when a cryptocurrency splits in two. Many accountants say the latter two are taxable like ordinary income.Tax preparers are worrying about those newer types of crypto transactions, according to Klasing. They’re also spooked by the spate of ICOs that may have skirted U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules, he said.“The government is basically just telling practitioners to take a wild-ass guess,” he said.An IRS spokesman said that in addition to the agency’s 2014 guidance, taxpayers should look at other rules governing an exchange or transfer of property and find the “factual scenarios that most closely resemble their circumstances.”Paying the tax man is relatively new for an industry built on anonymity and avoiding government control. For this filing season, many investors who have been trading for years will “come out of the woodwork” and disclose crypto on their returns for the first time, according to Jeffrey Kahn, a tax lawyer in Irvine who works with digital-currency holders. Popular exchange Coinbase told about 13,000 users in February that it would be turning over their account data to the IRS after losing a court fight to keep records private.The government is warning crypto investors that they must own up to their purchases. The IRS said in March that if taxpayers don’t “properly report” their transactions, they could face penalties and in extreme cases, criminal prosecution.Accountants need to be mindful as well. If they sign off on a return that understates a tax bill due to “unreasonable” arguments or “willful or reckless conduct,” they can face penalties of as much as $5,000 or 50 percent of the fee paid.For do-it-yourselfers, tax-prep companies offer resources for digital-currency buyers. TurboTax’s support site has 15 pages of questions tagged to “bitcoin,” a help center and a brief crypto tips page.H&R Block Inc. has a four-part explainer on the topic, as well as an online community forum for crypto queries. In it are hairy questions such as whether taxpayers are eligible for deductions if their Bitcoins are stolen.Luis Guerra, a copywriter in Seattle, tackled his return on his own and says he’s still wondering if he did it correctly. He, like many others, bought cryptocurrency in December after watching a friend get rich quick, but hadn’t considered the tax implications.After a lot of Googling -- and getting a lot of misinformation -- Guerra ended up using a website that could generate a report of his buys and sells across exchanges, and uploaded it to TurboTax. He followed the instructions to a T, but said the process was still confusing -- so much so that he almost gave up on trying to figure it out.“Then the angel on my shoulder just pops up and is like, ‘Dude, do it right,” he said. “You don’t want to owe anybody any money, and you definitely don’t want the IRS knocking on your door.’”

2018-04-15T21:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-15/samsung-jumps-on-blockchain-bandwagon-to-manage-its-supply-chain
The world’s biggest maker of smartphones and semiconductors may use the technology behind cryptocurrencies to manage its vast global supply network.Samsung Electronics Co. is considering a blockchain ledger system to keep track of global shipments worth tens of billion of dollars a year, according to Song Kwang-woo, the blockchain chief at Samsung SDS Co., the group’s logistical and information and technology arm. The system could cut shipping costs by 20 percent, according to SDS.While companies around the world have said they’re planning to deploy blockchain technology on everything from cross-border payments to tracking the life-cycle of supermarket chickens, Samsung Group is one of the first global manufacturers to take a serious look at using the distributed ledgers in its operations. SDS is working on the system for Samsung Electronics, the conglomerate’s crown jewel.“It will have an enormous impact on the supply chains of manufacturing industries,” said Song, who’s also a vice president at SDS. “Blockchain is a core platform to fuel our digital transformation.”Click here for a QuickTake explainer on blockchain technology.Thrust into the spotlight by bitcoin’s meteoric rise, blockchain technology has been touted as a breakthrough that will transform the way transactions are recorded, verified and shared. While its impact on the corporate world has been limited so far, Gartner Inc. predicts blockchain-related businesses will create $176 billion of value by 2025.Blockchain proponents in the shipping industry say the technology reduces the time needed to send paperwork back and forth and to coordinate with port authorities. Documentation costs for container shipments are more than twice as big as those for transportation, according to International Business Machines Corp., which is working with A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S to track cargo movements and automate shipping paperwork.SDS expects to handle 488,000 tons of air cargo and 1 million 20-foot-equivalent (TEU) shipping units this year. That would include organic light-emitting diode displays and Galaxy S9 phones made by Samsung Electronics. A blockchain system may help the company reduce the time lag between product launches and actual shipments, making it easier to respond to rival products and shifting consumer appetites in emerging markets like China, according to Cheong Tae-su, professor of industrial engineering at Korea University in Seoul.“It cuts overhead and eliminates bottlenecks,” Cheong said. “It’s about maximizing supply efficiency and visibility, which translates into greater consumer confidence.”— With assistance by Myungshin Cho

2018-04-11T18:17:16.320Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-11/bitcoin-purists-appear-to-be-bidding-the-hodl-life-adieu
With Bitcoin settling in a narrower trading range following its dramatic price collapse, it seems the "HODL" life is no more.At least that’s suggested by data collected by one Reddit.com user who noted the relationship between the number of times the term "HODL" was used in postings on the site and the changes in cryptocurrency market capitalization.Despite an "explosive” increase in the use of the word -- an intentional misspelling of "hold," signifying the practice of not selling in times of despair -- in December and January, posters have increasingly backed away from its use since early February. In fact, HODL decreased by almost two-fold since then, according to data collected from the popular DataIsBeautiful subreddit.The data seems to suggest that market volatility increases the number of HODL comments. “An increased [number of] HODL mentions weren’t just associated with days with the largest losses,” the user said. “In fact, market volatility in either direction was correlated with an increase of HODL mentions.”With pundits seemingly abandoning the HODL mantra, the question remains if it indeed translates into a shift in investor sentiment that prolongs the bear market of the last few months.

2018-04-11T13:40:03.405Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-11/bitcoin-evangelist-turned-foe-says-he-still-owns-cryptocurrency
One of the most outspoken proponents of Bitcoin Cash, the digital token that spun off from Bitcoin in August amid a heated debate in the digital-money community, still holds some of the original cryptocurrency because, well, everyone knows it’s smart to diversify.Roger Ver, an early Bitcoin evangelist whose work earned him the nickname Bitcoin Jesus, broke down his reasoning on Bloomberg TV Tuesday.Roger Ver speaks with Haslinda Amin from the Bloomberg Invest Asia Conference in Hong Kong“Like any smart investor, I don’t put all of my eggs in one basket,” Ver, who owns Bitcoin.com, said, in an interview from the Bloomberg Invest Asia Conference in Hong Kong. “So I still do own some Bitcoin core, but the vast majority I have converted into Bitcoin Cash.”Still, he reaffirmed his commitment to the spun-off coin: “I’m more bullish about Bitcoin Cash than I have been about Bitcoin core before it split,” Ver said. “It’s actually getting adoption all around the world, more and more merchants are accepting it, it’s easier to use.”Read more about the latest schism between Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash— With assistance by Andrew Dunn

2018-04-12T14:36:13.119Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-12/theranos-could-use-some-more-money
How's Theranos doing?A well-known fact of securities fraud is that it creates valuable mailing lists. If you come into possession of a list of people who have been defrauded before, there is a good chance you can find a way to defraud them again. This is perhaps a little counterintuitive -- they were just defrauded; shouldn't they be on guard for more frauds? -- and you need to be a bit thoughtful about how you defraud them again, but there are effective approaches. (Not legal advice!) "We will recover the money that those fraudsters took from you, for a modest up-front fee" is a popular one; "sure the investment those fraudsters sold you is worthless but with a little more money we can find a way to make it pay off" is another. The bet, and it seems to be a good one, is that the personality traits that led people to be defrauded in the first place are more powerful than the lessons that they drew from the experience. In other news, BuzzFeed published a letter that Elizabeth Holmes, the founder and chief executive officer of Theranos Inc., the disgraced Blood Unicorn that settled fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission last month, sent to Theranos's beleaguered shareholders this week:We last wrote on December 22, 2017, shortly after closing a secured debt financing transaction with Fortress Investment Group. We said that the transaction provided us runway to continue work on the miniLab and to position the company for additional financing events—but acknowledged the narrow path forward.Unfortunately, we are behind schedule on our first product milestone under the Fortress loan, and as a result will soon face a cash shortage. Below we detail our situation, apprise you of our options, and ask for your help as we continue to work to realize value for your investments. As we describe below, we are evaluating parallel paths, including potential investment terms that would provide a large stake in the company at what we believe to be a favorable price.My anecdotal impression is that very very few people who are not currently Theranos investors believe that there is a "favorable" price for Theranos shares that is not zero. But! Probably some people who are currently Theranos investors remain believers. Why not hit them up for money? The whole letter is worth reading, for its mix of frank admission that things are messed up ("In light of where we are, this is no easy ask"), optimistic assessments of Theranos's "real progress" and "basis for building significant long-term value," and outright threats that if investors don't pitch in more money then they will be (more) hosed: "Holders of Series C-1B and Series C-2A Preferred Stock should also be aware that their failure to participate in a financing having a purchase price of less than $5 per share would result in mandatory conversion of their shares into nonvoting Series C-1B* or Series C-2A* Preferred Stock," and if Theranos doesn't raise enough money to keep going, "Fortress would be entitled to control a foreclosure sale and/or monetization of the assets and to realize up to a three-times return on its investment."We talk sometimes around here about the SEC's "bad actor" bars, which say that if you are caught doing certain kinds of bad behavior, then you will be barred for some time from being involved in certain kinds of private sales of securities. The SEC tends to waive these bars when big banks are caught doing bad things, and lots of people criticize those waivers, and I tend to defend them. The point of the bad actor bars is to stop the sorts of people who would defraud private investors from defrauding more private investors. When a giant bank does some spoofing in its commodity division, I reason, there's no particular sense in barring its completely separate equity financing division from doing private placements: The commodity badness doesn't reflect the behavior of the financing division, and the automatic bar would just make capital-raising more difficult for innocent client companies without really doing anything to deter or prevent the spoofing that got the bank in trouble. And then everyone gets mad at me on theories of general deterrence, arguing that any additional punishment for the bank is good, because it will make the bank think twice about doing anything bad. I am unconvinced.On the other hand! It is a little weird that the SEC sanctioned Theranos and Holmes a month ago for defrauding investors in its private stock sales, and that Theranos and Holmes are out again now pitching a stock sale to those investors. I mean it's not that weird: Who else would pitch a Theranos stock sale, if not Theranos and its CEO? And how will Theranos survive if it doesn't raise money? And should the penalty for Theranos's misstatements to investors really be shutting down Theranos and losing all of those investors' money? Still it is a little jarring to see Holmes and Theranos right back on the horse (unicorn), raising money from investors a month after being punished for defrauding those same investors.Taxes.I sometimes cite around here Michael Graetz's two laws of tax, which are that it's always better to have more money than less money, and that it's always better to die later than sooner. An imprecise but occasionally useful corollary of the first law is that it is often -- by no means always, but often -- better to pay higher taxes than lower taxes, because in a tax system that broadly taxes you on the money you make, the more taxes you are paying the more money you have made. By that standard, John Paulson has quite a lovely problem:By April 17, the hedge-fund manager must make federal and state tax payments of about $1 billion, on top of roughly $500 million in taxes he paid late last year, said people close to the firm. That sum is so big it dwarfs the maximum amount the Internal Revenue Service will allow any single taxpayer to pay with a single check. (That’s $99,999,999, in case you’re wondering.)Mr. Paulson bet big against subprime mortgages ahead of last decade’s financial crisis, earning about $15 billion of profits for his funds and approximately $4 billion for himself. He deferred the bulk of the taxes on these profits, using a tax provision available at the time to hedge-fund managers, said the people close to the firm. Now the bill is due. ...Paying the tax bill may itself be something of a chore for Mr. Paulson. He could wire the money but may wish to pay by check if he’ll earn interest on the money until tax authorities cash the check. If so, the IRS accepts only checks or money orders of less than $100 million. He could submit multiple payments, though tax attorneys note that clients can have problems fitting such huge numbers onto the line on a check.Look. I am not, myself, fabulously wealthy, so I cannot tell you with confidence what I would do in this situation. But I would like to think that if I were ever faced with the problem of paying $1.5 billion of taxes on my $4 billion of profits, I would find a few hours to embrace the process. Like I'd write more than the minimum 15 checks, in a wide range of amusing amounts ($99,999,999.00, $99,999,998.75, $4.20, $0.11, etc.). I would practice my penmanship in order to fit the numbers on the line. I might buy a new fine-tip pen. Heck, I'm rich in this scenario, I might order oversized checks. I'd probably open a bottle of Champagne to pair with the check-writing. I suppose there is a sense in which writing out "Ninety-nine million, nine hundred ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred ninety-nine dollars and 00/100" on a check -- 15 checks! -- could be considered a chore, but the fact of the matter is that I rather enjoyed typing it right now, and the $99,999,999 check that I am writing is purely hypothetical. If I actually had all those $99,999,999s in my bank account -- and then some -- I think it would be a real pleasure.Graetz's laws of tax are profound, but my corollary is admittedly trivial. Duh, paying more taxes means you're richer, and being richer is good. But it's worth saying about Paulson, because that Wall Street Journal story about his tax issues is only very briefly about the difficulty of fitting numbers onto a check. It's mostly a survey of Paulson's career as a hedge-fund manager. You might be familiar with the basic outlines of that story: Paulson "produced steady gains" in merger arbitrage for a while, foresaw the financial crisis, bet against subprime mortgages, made a vast pile of money, "was managing $38 billion and was firmly among Wall Street’s elite," and "then he went cold," losing lots of client money on bad bets on gold miners and a Chinese forestry company and pharmaceutical companies and an S&P 500 short. "Today, Paulson & Co. is managing under $9 billion—most of it Mr. Paulson’s own assets." Generally speaking, if you make billions of dollars of capital gains one year, and have billions of dollars of capital losses the next year, you can offset those results to lower your taxes. That is only fair: If you make a billion and then lose a billion, you are back where you started, and shouldn't have to pay hundreds of millions of dollars of taxes on income you don't really have. But that's not Paulson's situation -- not only because he's still ahead of where he started, but also because that $4 billion isn't purely capital gains in the traditional sense:“It is safe to say it is one of the largest tax bills on earned income in history,” said Henry Bregstein, co-global head of the financial services group at the law firm Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP. Billionaires in the technology and private-equity worlds usually achieved the bulk of their wealth through the appreciation of shares, he said, not from earned income. ... As with most hedge funds, Paulson & Co. enjoys profits from fees amounting to 20% of gains generated for investors. If you make billions of dollars for clients, and then lose billions of dollars for them, and you charge 20 percent of profits, then you come out ahead. The taxes are almost a ratification of how well your business model worked out for you.Speaking of which: "Bitcoin Buyers Now Have to Figure Out Their Taxes." "Narrowly tailored credit events."The International Swaps and Derivatives Association is getting increasingly concerned about the nonsense going on at Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. We have talked about it a bunch, including this week, but the gist is that Hovnanian is going to do an extremely surgical default on its bonds (it will fail to make a payment on a small batch of bonds that are held by its own affiliate) in order to trigger its credit-default swaps, and it will issue some extremely goofy bonds that will create a large payout on those credit-default swaps. This will be a windfall for owners of that CDS, including Blackstone Group LP's credit unit GSO, and GSO will allow Hovnanian to participate in that windfall in the form of attractive financing terms.It's a good trade! For Hovnanian, and for GSO. It is embarrassing, though, for the CDS market, which ISDA represents; I wrote this week that, "exaggerating slightly, after Hovnanian, a CDS contract looks like a derivative that pays off $100 if the company wants it to, and $0 if it doesn't." That is not a contract that anyone would be particularly interested in buying or (especially) selling, and so ISDA is alarmed. It published a statement yesterday from its board of directors, expressing that alarm:“The ISDA Board of Directors has noted recent press reports of instances of credit default swap (CDS) market participants entering into arrangements with corporations that are narrowly tailored to trigger a credit event for CDS contracts while minimizing the impact on the corporation, in order to increase payment to the buyers of CDS protection. ...“We believe that narrowly tailored defaults, those that are designed to result in CDS payments that do not reflect the creditworthiness of the underlying corporate borrower (the reference entity in the CDS), could negatively impact the efficiency, reliability and fairness of the overall CDS market. We have therefore instructed the ISDA staff, as part of its ongoing dialogue with the market, to consult with market participants and advise the Board on whether further amendments to the ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions should be considered.”That's fine. Even for GSO it's fine. Obviously, with its Hovnanian trade, GSO will be killing the goose that lays this particular golden egg. The question is whether GSO will be killing the loophole in CDS that allows it to get paid off for a more-or-less fake default, or whether it will be killing the whole CDS market. Killing the whole CDS market would be bad for GSO! It's a credit fund; it uses CDS. And it's a clever credit fund, so it wants to be able to make different, clever use of CDS in the future. Clearly it would prefer the blowback to this particular clever trade to be narrowly tailored.Is Bitcoin money?Ahahahahaha:JPMorgan Chase & Co. was sued for charging "sky-high" interest rates and fees to customers who used their credit cards to buy cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.Brady Tucker, a Chase credit-card customer in Idaho, claims the bank in January began treating his cryptocurrency buys as cash advances instead of purchases, and charging him interest rates of as much as 30 percent a year and additional fees.I was not aware that JPMorgan did that, and now I want to go to their offices and high-five them. That's great. (It does not seem to be unique to them, among credit-card issuers.) "What, Bitcoin is money, right? You want to buy money with your credit card? Cash advance. What's the problem?"Elsewhere in Bitcoin: "Claudio Guazzoni de Zanett said he’ll accept $29.95 million in U.S. dollars or about $45 million in digital currency for his six-story townhouse on New York’s Upper East Side." "You could just ... sell the Bitcoins for $45 million ... and buy the house for $29.95 million ... and keep the extra $15 million?," was my first thought, but that is because I am a nocoiner. In the words of that meme, one does not simply sell $45 million worth of Bitcoins, certainly not for $45 million. But the point is, a 50 percent illiquidity premium would be pretty harsh for a functioning currency.ICOs, etc.Elsewhere in crypto: "The former Wall Street deals lawyer who leads the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said one of the biggest surprises of his first year heading the agency has been learning about the levels of fraud surrounding initial coin offerings and penny stocks." Look, I'm with him on that. He did big deals for big banks and big companies at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. He wasn't hanging out with penny-stock scammers. Now he is. I get that there is a popular perception that big-time Wall Street finance is a hotbed of fraud, but objectively, it isn't. Big banks hire good lawyers, like Jay Clayton, and they call him up and ask him for advice on how to follow the law. Dealing with people who just cheerfully ignore the law probably is a new experience for him.Meanwhile, here is an argument that "the use of SAFTs" -- Simple Agreements for Future Tokens, in which companies do initial coin offerings by private placements of securities that eventually flip into non-security "utility tokens" when their projects go live -- "should be DEAD." The theory is that the SEC considers even "utility tokens" -- tokens that can actually be used to do transactions in a working network, instead of having only speculative value -- to be securities, and so those tokens would need to be registered, and doing an unregistered sale of securities (SAFTs) that can flip into registered securities (tokens) is a no-no. I am not convinced. No one really knows how the SEC would treat a working "utility token," because they basically don't exist. The closest things we have are tokens like Bitcoin and Ether, which can be used in robust networks, and which the SEC has not, so far, tried to regulate as securities. I suspect if someone built a token-based network, and the tokens could really be used to buy and sell some real product on that network, and the tokens' value was relatively stable and tied to the value of the product rather than a speculative bet on the network, then that really wouldn't be a security, and a SAFT that flipped into that sort of token would be fine. I suppose the worry is that the SEC will step in to shut down SAFTs long before we can ever find out.Things happen.Does the World Really Need an AI-Powered Dark Pool? How a volatility virus infected Wall Street. Fidelity Is Revamping How It Charges You for Financial Advice. When Titans Collide: Starboard's Jeff Smith Challenges Carl Icahn at Newell. Knauf’s USG Showdown Will Put Buffett to the Test. U.S. Proposes Loosening Big-Bank Capital Rule. Fed Sees GDP Hit From Trade War Outweighing Fleeting Inflation. SoftBank teams with investors for $25bn Fifa shake-up plan. Ex-Speaker John Boehner Joins Marijuana Firm’s Advisory Board. How Wynn’s Boston Casino Is Rising on Land Tied to a Mobster. "Heartbleed gained so much attention it inspired the Pwnie Awards—pronounced 'Pony' Awards—which recognize the best bug branding at the annual Black Hat computer-security conference in Las Vegas." Massive rave at abandoned Toys 'R' Us shut down by police. "Police say a Connecticut man with a crush on singer Taylor Swift robbed a bank and then went to the pop star's Rhode Island mansion where he threw cash over a fence in an attempt to impress her."If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-13T12:38:33.342Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-13/ritholtz-s-reads-financial-regrets-and-whirlwind-romances
My end-of-week, leaving-Chicago morning plane reads:Be sure to check out our Masters in Business interview this weekend with Annie Duke, an expert in the science of decision making and one of the world's top poker players. In 2004, she won the World Series of Poker. She is the author of "Thinking in Bets: Making Smarter Decisions When You Don't Have All the Facts."Source: A Wealth of Common SenseWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-10T15:07:20.017Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/-bitcoin-is-back-from-suspension-and-tweeting-against-bitcoin
The @Bitcoin account is back up on Twitter after being suspended Sunday, and the verbal jabs are just as intense.    The account’s anonymous owner supports Bitcoin Cash, a rival coin that split from the largest cryptocurrency last year amid a disagreement over how the network should scale. Some Bitcoin Cash supporters suggest the new coin, which holds a greater number of transactions per block in its blockchain, is the real Bitcoin. Bitcoin Cash’s market capitalization is still about 10 times smaller than Bitcoin’s, according to CoinMarketCap.“From day one, Bitcoin was marketed to the world as a fast & cheap global payments network. Now the BTC crowd says that’s wrong and that Bitcoin should be a slow & expensive ‘store-of-value’ not meant to be used as currency,” a post on the resurrected feed said Tuesday. “Who is trying to steal the Bitcoin brand, again?”An earlier tweet asks why Twitter chief Jack Dorsey, who invested in a company developing Lightning Network technology, disabled the account, and followed that tweet with more posts criticizing the technology, which is aimed at making Bitcoin payments faster and cheaper.The suspension of the @Bitcoin account was another chapter in the fight between the two groups, as one side blamed the move on complaints to Twitter from Bitcoin supporters and argued it went against free speech, while the other side cheered. 

2018-04-13T11:46:34.274Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-04-13/the-ruble-s-calm-is-like-a-swan
The ruble has rallied. Let's not get used to that.Sure, there was a lot of sense behind the rout, what with the U.S. sanctions having been cleverly designed to seriously undermine the Russian economy.The ruble has recovered more than half its losses on the weekSource: BloombergGold, a traditional safe haven, played its part and has tracked the ruble this week.Gold has moved closely in line with  the ruble this weekSource: BloombergU.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin was a big help in driving a return to calm. This week he removed one wild card from the pack, by ruling out the prospect of America extending its sanctions to encompass Russian local currency sovereign debt. This prompted a recovery in the ruble bond market, which in turn removed some of the liquidation pressure on the currency. A third of ruble-denominated bonds are owned by foreigners and a lot of these are American. And who can blame them? It's been a great trade.The selloff this week in Russian domestic government debt abated when the U.S. treasury confirmed it would not widen sanctions to include the OFZ market Source: BloombergBut Russia is not going to be let off the political hook on sanctions or for its involvement in Syria, and other markets seem to be reflecting this.The Swiss franc, another paradigm of safety, has, surprisingly, weakened. Or maybe not so surprising -- Bloomberg News reports that this may be the impact of Russian oligarchs liquidating their assets. If foreigners are getting out of Russian holdings, citizens are bringing their money back home. In a week of high stress it is strange to see the usual haven of the Swiss franc weakenSource: BloombergAnd maybe this explains why Bitcoin -- another potential means to transfer assets -- has soared. Maybe.The sudden jump in Bitcoin might be coincidental but then again maybe notSource; BloombergThe Central Bank of Russia has helped the ruble by making a conscious effort to stop making its situation worse. It suspended building up its foreign-currency reserves, which had involved selling rubles to buy about $180-200 million daily. But officials say they'll resume buying once the current bout of volatility subsides. And, by insisting they'll stick to their free-float policy, they're ruling out intervention.The lack of a western military response in Syria, despite President Donald Trump's tweets, to a reported chemical weapons atrocity has also contributed to the ruble's part-recovery. Betting that all these powers will restrain their might is foolish.There are lots of reasons to think the ruble can turn right back down again, and precious few to believe the rally will continue. To contact the author of this story:      Marcus Ashworth in    London at mashworth4@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Jennifer Ryan at jryan13@bloomberg.net

2018-04-11T18:31:21.253Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-11/once-surging-crypto-stocks-face-delisting-and-the-end-of-an-era
That didn’t take, uh, long.Long Blockchain Corp. and Longfin Corp., two firms whose shares skyrocketed last year after they rebranded as blockchain businesses, are in trouble with Nasdaq. One faces an impending removal from the stock market and the other may meet the same fate, signaling the end of a brief era when everyone from soft-drink companies to cigar makers was cashing in on investors’ mania for cryptocurrencies and their underlying technology.Long Blockchain was already facing potential delisting in December when it shifted its focus from iced tea to crypto. The company said Tuesday that it’s being suspended by Nasdaq on April 12 pursuant to a rule that gives the exchange operator the power to boot firms with histories of misconduct.Shortly before that announcement, Longfin, the fintech-turned-crypto firm that’s in trouble with U.S. regulators, said it received a Nasdaq noncompliance letter because it didn’t file its quarterly report on time.As Bitcoin streaked toward a record high in December, a rash of firms that had little or no experience with cryptocurrencies or blockchain technology used the buzzwords as an antidote for lackluster stock returns. Even Eastman Kodak Co. shares, which have languished for years, skyrocketed after the photography pioneer said in January that it was joining with another firm to create a digital token called KodakCoin.But the fun seems to be coming to an end for many of the stocks, which have lost steam in recent months amid a steep drop in the price of Bitcoin.Read more about the public companies that rebranded with cryptoShare performance aside, Longfin and Long Blockchain have had a tough time proving themselves to investors and regulators.Last week, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission obtained a court order freezing more than $27 million in proceeds from the sale of Longfin shares, saying the gains came from illegal trades by insiders. (An attorney representing Longfin didn’t respond to a request for comment at the time.)The agency had also been investigating the New York-based company’s acquisition of Ziddu.com, which Longfin has described as “a blockchain-empowered solutions provider that offers microfinance lending against collateralized warehouse receipts in the form of Ziddu Coins.” That followed the firm’s ouster from the Russell 2000 Index less than two weeks after joining, and the resignation of its accountants, who said they found “material weaknesses” in the company’s financial reporting.As for Long Blockchain, formerly Long Island Iced Tea Corp., Nasdaq had threatened to delist it in October -- before the name change -- because its market value was too low.In February, the exchange sent it a delisting notice, alleging that the Farmingdale, New York-based company “made a series of public statements designed to mislead investors and to take advantage of general investor interest in Bitcoin and blockchain technology.” The company said in a February filing that it “strongly disagrees” with Nasdaq’s assertion.Long Blockchain said Tuesday that it plans to apply for its stock to be traded over the counter. Longfin said it intends to submit a plan of compliance to Nasdaq by April 13, which could convince the exchange to extend its filing deadline to July 9.

2018-04-13T10:32:33.557Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-13/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTrade deals not war, Trump turns on Amazon’s “delivery boy’’ and it’s earnings season for banks. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.President Donald Trump now wants trade deals, not war. He asked his aides to explore rejoining an Asia-Pacific trade pact he withdrew from shortly after taking office and said the U.S. and China ultimately may end up levying no new tariffs on each other – just a week after threatening them on some $150 billion of Chinese imports. “I think they’re going to treat us really fairly,” Trump said during a White House meeting. Ministers from Japan, Australia and Malaysia said they welcomed the overture but said there was little appetite to renegotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Regardless, markets signaled relief, with European stocks up and U.S futures pointing higher.As things quieted on the Eastern front, Trump turned to domestic issues. He ordered the creation of a task force to review business practices at the United States Postal Service, a move that could affect Amazon.com Inc., one of the president’s bete-noires. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin (or a designee) will lead the committee tasked with solving the Postal Service’s money problem (the White House estimates it lost $65 billion loss over the past decade). Trump has accused Amazon of “costing the United States Post Office massive amounts of money for being their delivery boy.”  Speaking of recriminations, former FBI Director James Comey has a new book out in which he likens the president to a mafia boss.JPMorgan Chase & Co. kicks off earnings reports from big banks before the market opens Friday, along with Wells Fargo & Co. and Citigroup Inc. Next week features reports from Bank of America Corp., followed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Investors will get a chance to gauge the impact of higher interest rates and a flattening yield curve on lenders’ bottom lines. For bank chiefs, the quarterly flag-waving exercise will be a chance to weigh in on everything from trade tension to volatility to the aging economic cycle.The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.2 percent as of 5:54 a.m. Eastern Time while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.6 percent higher. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index rose 0.3 percent with commodity producers and industrials leading gains. S&P 500 futures pointed up. Oil and gold were also higher.After its steepest two-day drop in more than three years at the start of the week, the ruble clawed back after the U.S. Treasury Secretary said he’s still opposed to the so-called nuclear option of sanctioning Russia’s sovereign debt. Markets have been whipsawed this week after the U.S. penalties knocked one of the country’s biggest employers out of the dollar economy and the White House warned Moscow to prepare for missile strikes on Syria. Meanwhile, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas calls for ratcheting up political pressure on Russia over its backing of Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad.This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours. 

2018-04-09T16:40:23.516Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/bitcoin-schism-escalates-after-twitter-suspends-bitcoin-account
Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash’s most fervent supporters are at it again and Twitter has become a bitter battlefield.The latest victim? The @Bitcoin Twitter account was suspended.@Bitcoin carries the name of the largest cryptocurrency but, just like Bitcoin.com, frequently issued statements supporting Bitcoin Cash, which split from Bitcoin last year over a disagreement on how the technology should scale. These posts don’t sit well with supporters of the original Bitcoin blockchain, including a group of developers called Bitcoin Core.The fight between the two groups prompted prominent blockchain developer Jeff Garzik and others, to attribute the suspension to the endless complaints about @Bitcoin that Twitter was likely getting from Bitcoin Core supporters. Twitter didn’t state reasons for the suspension.Roger Ver, an early Bitcoin evangelist whose work earned him the nick-name of Bitcoin Jesus, has now become a vocal supporter of Bitcoin Cash. Ver, who owns the Bitcoin.com website, tweeted:The latest skirmish in the war which started with the so-called Bitcoin Cash fork in August, highlights the downside of decentralized organizations and technologies. The lack of a management team means contributors globally can work on improving the technology, which will be implemented only if a majority agrees, but it’s also cause for disagreements and splits.“The cryptocurrency development is open source, which means disagreements get aired publicly with the additional angle of the forking of a blockchain, where you have to take the entire network with you, and that creates much more tension," said Neeraj Agrawal, a spokesman at blockchain research advocacy Coin Center. “I don’t expect that to change anytime soon.”Litecoin creator Charlie Lee, a well-known Bitcoin Core supporter, was likely one of the first to alert to the suspension with this tweet on Sunday:The account now seems to be under new control. The bio now reads "My name is Andrei from Moscow Russia." The private account, which means Tweets aren’t visible to those @Bitcoin doesn’t give permission to follow, has less than 2,000 followers and a background picture that reads "I love you."— With assistance by Luke Kawa, and Andrew Dunn

2018-04-10T15:48:55.700Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-10/bitcoin-was-prone-to-bubbles-until-bears-could-bet-against-it
The recent Bitcoin bubble wasn’t the first, and it might not be the last. Once in 2011 and twice in 2013, the price soared and then crashed:Bitcoin closing pricesSource: Coindesk.comAnd again: Bitcoin closing pricesSource: Coindesk.comOne more time:Bitcoin closing pricesSource: Coindesk.comEach peak was bigger than the last. If you think there will be another, even bigger bubble somewhere down the line, then maybe any losses you took in the recent bubble may be made whole in time.Why has Bitcoin been subject to repeated bubbles? One reason is lack of liquidity -- since relatively few people owned and traded the cryptocurrency in years past, even a small surge of buying could push the price up dramatically, and even a modest pullback could send it crashing.A second reason is that Bitcoin was, at least until recently, a new asset. Speculators had no real idea how many potential cryptocurrency investors were out there. Economic theory shows that this can easily lead to an overshoot, where even rational investors temporarily push an asset’s price beyond its long-term sustainable value.But there’s a third reason for Bitcoin’s bubbliness -- it was hard to bet against it.Basic finance theory says that if there’s no way to invest and profit from an asset's decline, the price is determined by the most optimistic buyer. If some traders think Bitcoin is overpriced, but have no way to bet on their belief, they will just sell their stake and sit out of the market. Everyone who remains will be an optimist, and they will buy Bitcoin for the high price they believe it’s worth.This mechanism is a key part of almost every theory of financial bubbles. A famous 1978 paper by J. Michael Harrison and David Kreps showed how without short-selling, differing levels of optimism and pessimism would cause even rational agents to push asset prices above fundamental values. A later model of bubbles and crashes by Dilip Abreu and Markus Brunnermeier also featured a limit on short-selling, as did another by Jose Scheinkman and Wei Xiong. In a short sale, an investor borrows an asset such as a stock or bond and sells it, hoping to buy it back for less to return to the lender and pocket the difference as a gain.In 1997, Andrei Shleifer and Robert Vishny proposed to make this sort of constraint, which they grouped under the general heading of “limits to arbitrage,” a unifying theory of financial market failures. Research on just why and how smart, well-informed traders are unable to cancel out bubbles continues to this day.Limits to arbitrage can help explain why Bitcoin has been so bubble-prone. Until recently, it was easy enough to take a long position, but expensive and risky to bet against the cryptocurrency. Things really changed in December, when U.S. regulators allowed the trading of Bitcoin futures. That move came in the middle of a historic runup in the price of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. But as soon as futures contracts began to trade, an interesting thing happened -- futures prices suggested that Bitcoin’s growth would slow.What happened next is historic. Bitcoin’s price crashed from a high of about $19,000 to less than $7,000 as of the writing of this article: Was this a coincidence? Maybe. The huge surge in demand for Bitcoin both inflated the bubble and caused a demand for a futures market. But the timing of the crash, right after the introduction of futures markets, is eerie. It mirrors the result of a 2006 paper by economists Charles Noussair and Steven Tucker, who introduced a futures market into a trading experiment:We find that when futures markets are present, bubbles do not occur in [our experimental asset] markets. The futures markets seem to reduce the speculation and the decision errors that appear to give rise to price bubbles in experimental asset markets.A few students trading an imaginary stock in a laboratory isn’t the same as millions of real people trading tens of billions of dollars worth of Bitcoin. But this is a case when theory, lab experiments and practical experience align to a spooky degree. The housing bubble is another example where betting against the asset in question was extremely difficult.This suggests that there’s a good and easy way for regulators to reduce the incidence of bubbles. Whenever a new asset is created or a bunch of new investors enters the market, allow more futures trading and other exchanges that let pessimists publicly register their pessimistic beliefs. That won’t totally prevent all bubbles -- the late 1990s technology stock bubble, for instance, happened in spite of the existence of stock futures markets.But it would certainly help. Keeping pessimists out of the market is a recipe for repeated bubbles and crashes, as overoptimistic speculators rampage unchecked. Given a level playing field, the bears can restrain the bulls.To contact the author of this story:          Noah Smith     at nsmith150@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-11T18:54:39.233Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-11/jpmorgan-sued-over-cash-advance-fees-for-cryptocurrency-buys
JPMorgan Chase & Co. was sued for charging "sky-high" interest rates and fees to customers who used their credit cards to buy cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin.Brady Tucker, a Chase credit-card customer in Idaho, claims the bank in January began treating his cryptocurrency buys as cash advances instead of purchases, and charging him interest rates of as much as 30 percent a year and additional fees. The suit comes as an increasing number of credit-card issuers are taking measures to limit or block cryptocurrency purchases.Tucker’s suit cites comments by JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon last year calling Bitcoin a "fraud" and threatening to fire any trader who bought or sold them for being "stupid." Dimon later said he regretted those comments and wished he hadn’t dismissed the technology so broadly."It appears that in addition to firing its ’stupid’ employees, Chase elected to start fining its ‘stupid’ customers: unilaterally," Tucker said in his lawsuit.JPMoregan CEO Dimon Says He Regrets Bitcoin Comments, Calls Blockchain ‘Real’Tucker is seeking class-action status for the suit filed Tuesday in federal court in Manhattan. He seeks a refund of all related fees plus $1 million in damages. Representatives of JPMorgan Chase didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment.JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. this year began to decline cryptocurrency purchases, fearing borrowers might not pay and that cardholders might dispute charges if they receive tokens that turn out to be fraudulent or illegal.Tucker said in his complaint that he routinely made purchases of cryptocurrency through Coinbase and other exchanges on his credit card and would pay them off by the end of the billing cycle without incurring finance charges. He said he and other credit-card holders were "duped.""Chase silently smacked them with instant-cash-advance fees, plus much higher interest rates than normal, and left them without any recourse," Tucker said.Tucker said he and others used their credit cards for cryptocurrencies because they were the only way to purchase them instantly, as buying them with a bank account number would require several days of processing. Tucker said the bank never notified him that it was changing its policies, which would have caused him to stop using the credit card for such purchases and avoid racking up fees.The bank started treating the purchases as cash advances late in January and charged Tucker a total of $143 in fees and $20.61 in interest in January and February alone, according to the complaint. When he called the bank’s customer service line to complain, Chase blamed the costs on Coinbase, Tucker said.In February, customers of Coinbase, the largest U.S. cryptocurrency exchange, began complaining that their purchases were prompting hefty "cash advance" fees to appear on their card statements. The exchange publicly accused Visa Inc. and Mastercard Inc. of changing the exchange’s so-called merchant classification code, a move that prompted banks to treat card purchases on the venue as cash advances.Visa and Mastercard have insisted there was no change in Coinbase’s code. Instead, they said, they merely clarified to banks which code they should have been using all along for transactions at cryptocurrency exchanges.The case is Tucker v. Chase Bank USA NA, 18-cv-3155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).

2018-04-10T12:00:11.858Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/the-world-is-cracking-down-on-bitcoin-except-japan-jftm67af
Over the last few months, governments around the world have cracked down on bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. But one country is sticking to its crypto-friendly policies: Japan. This week on Decrypted, Bloomberg Technology's Yuji Nakamura and Aki Ito take you to Tokyo to meet the unlikely characters who helped turn Japan into the world's premier bitcoin hub, including investor Roger Ver, a.k.a. Bitcoin Jesus.Want to hear more? Subscribe on Apple Podcasts and Pocket Casts for new episodes every week. Decrypted is a podcast that uncovers the hidden projects, quiet rivalries and uncomfortable truths in the global technology industry. 

2018-04-12T20:54:13.274Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-12/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jfx04oig
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTrump mulls joining the TPP, and says the U.S. and China may not levy tariffs on each other after all. Also, Hong Kong intervened in the FX market. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.President Donald Trump told lawmakers he is considering rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Asia-Pacific trade pact he withdrew from shortly after taking office.  “He multiple times reaffirmed the point that TPP might be easier to join now,” said Senator Ben Sasse. Trump also said the U.S. and China may ultimately end up levying no new tariffs on each other. “I think they’re going to treat us really fairly,” he said of China. Markets went risk-on, with U.S. stocks advancing 0.8 percent. U.S. Treasury 10-year yields rose to around 2.84 percent. And former U.S. Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson said he sees the U.S.-China impasse ending in “a win for both countries.”The Hong Kong Monetary Authority bought the local currency for the first time since the current trading band was imposed in 2005, after the exchange rate sank to the weak end of its permitted range. The de facto central bank purchased HK$816 million ($104 million) on Thursday. The intervention is significant because the HKMA’s purchases have the potential to boost borrowing costs by draining liquidity. That would signal the end of an era of ultra-cheap money that made Hong Kong the world’s least affordable market for housing and propelled equities to all-time highs.President Xi Jinping presided over the biggest naval fleet review since 1949 in the South China Sea and called on his nation to build a world-class navy, while the government scheduled a live-fire military drill in the Taiwan Straits for next week. Xi urged the navy to stay on high alert, safeguard national interests and also strengthen the leadership of the Communist Party, according to a statement on the website of the Ministry of National Defense Thursday. The military exercise, to be held on April 18 off its coast opposite Taiwan, is the first to be disclosed in at least two years.Inflation may be easing in India, as data on Thursday showed, but there are mounting risks. At the top of the list is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plan to raise the prices of food crops to help distressed farmers, a key voter base. His government is seeking to pay farmers at least 50 percent more than the cost of their produce, boosting the retail prices of about a dozen monsoon-sown crops, due for harvest in October.  The plan will help Modi fulfill his promise of raising incomes to placate farmers saddled with higher debt amid falling commodity prices, and shore up his support ahead of federal elections early next year. But it’s expected to fan prices at a time when oil is surging, putting further pressure on bond yields.The end of the week will see Singapore in focus as the city state reports 1Q GDP and its central bank announces policy. There will also be releases on trade from China and India that will be perused for clues on how the global economy is traveling, while Australia's central bank releases its half-yearly financial stability review. And the U.S. day will bring the excitement of earnings reports for Citigroup, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Vrishti Beniwal, Bibhudatta Pradhan, Justin Sink, and Margaret Talev

2018-04-09T18:58:36.214Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/bitcoin-seen-popping-like-the-greatest-bubbles-by-bofa
The greatest bubble in history is popping, according to Bank of America Corp.The cryptocurrency is tracking the downfalls of the other massive asset-price bubbles in history less than one year out from its record, analysts lead by Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett wrote in a note Sunday.The cryptocurrency has fallen more than 65 percent since peaking in December at $19,511. Bitcoin rose 2.2 percent to $6,750 on Monday.

2018-04-11T06:00:17.786Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-11/how-portfolios-should-get-through-this-market-volatility
The transition from liquidity-powered markets for risk assets to those influenced a lot more by fundamentals was never likely to be smooth, as it involved changes to drivers of investor behavior and market flows. Yet, despite this year’s unsettling spikes in high-frequency, two-way market moves, the right investment strategy is to “look through” the volatility.Given the events in markets over the last few years, this approach has two main implications for long-term investors: On portfolio allocation, it calls for them to make either implicit or explicit calls on macroeconomic policies in the U.S., Europe and China, and on specific exposures, it requires them to take a view on key emerging trends.This year has been characterized by the kind of stock market movements that hadn’t been seen for a while. As an example, Bloomberg Markets reported last week that there had already been three times as many moves of 1 percent or more in the S&P 500 this year than there were for the whole of 2017.This increase in two-way price moves was preceded in 2017 by a highly unusual combination of market calm, strong performance and favorable asset-class correlations for conventional investment portfolios. Together, these conditions delivered one of the best years on record for traditional investors, both on a standalone basis and when risk-adjusted.Against this background, investors shouldn't treat this year’s volatility as a strange phenomenon. Instead, they should think of it as payback for a period when a more normalized level of volatility was heavily repressed by significant non-commercial flows, including consistent buying of securities on the part of some large central banks and cash-rich corporates. This allowed markets to continuously sidestep fluid economic, geopolitical and political factors. As a result, market corrections became less frequent, less severe and a lot shorter in duration.Low volatility is not the only thing that investors have de facto borrowed from the future. They have also borrowed growth, and not just through the rise in debt that has enabled a range of additional economic and corporate activities. The resulting impact on markets was turbocharged by investor conditioning to buy every dip and served to decouple more elevated market pricing from more sluggish fundamentals. That could be sustained as long as the non-commercial suppression of volatility remained strong, both in actuality and in investor perceptions.This delicate balance is being redefined so far this year. But instead of experiencing a significant deterioration in fundamentals that pulls down elevated asset prices, markets are navigating a reduction in the potency of the volatility suppressors.The central banking community, led by the Federal Reserve, continues to slowly transition away from the financial repression regime that has dominated its thinking and actions since the global financial crisis. Unlike during other bouts of volatility since the crisis, the end of quantitative easing purchases by the Fed, actual and anticipated balance-sheet reduction by the European Central Bank along with Fed rate hikes have not been accompanied so far this year by soothing words from central bankers to counter volatility spikes.Investors should look through market volatility as long as it does not cause major technical dislocations and damage market functioning. They can draw comfort from the limited disruptions associated with this year’s collapse in short-vol trades and Bitcoin prices, as well as from the relatively limited widening in credit spreads.All of which raises questions about the longer-term positioning of investment portfolios given the transition in market volatility.From an asset-allocation perspective, this involves a call on the success of two more regime transitions that are also ongoing: in global growth dynamics and trade interactions, and in the rebalancing of macro-policy in systemically important countries.As I have argued, the world economy needs much stronger pro-growth leadership after benefiting from the fortunate coincidence of four largely unconnected drivers of economic expansion: policies in the U.S., natural healing in Europe, a soft landing in China, and rebounds from shocks in Brazil (political), India (demonetization) and Russia (commodities). For example, the U.S. needs to build on positive developments by supplementing recent measures with a productivity-enhancing infrastructure program. Europe should do more to implement structural reforms, rebalance its fiscal-monetary mix and strengthen the regional economic and financial architecture.Investors’ assessments of the probability of such changes speak directly to their view on how, where and when the gap between market prices and fundamentals will be closed. The orderly convergence of fundamentals to market prices, thereby validating them, is the best outcome. And that is not the only big call investors face. In considering allocations to specific sectors and securities, they also need to take a position on what are likely to be a handful of defining phenomena over the next few years -- for example, in tech, regulation, geopolitics and the alignment of the global economy.Putting aside geopolitical risk, my evaluation of these issues points to three main takeaways that feed into investors’ assessment of how much risk they should take and where they should take it.Here is the silver lining of the current bout of greater volatility for investors able and willing to respond: Days of particularly pronounced market moves, both up and down, tend to be associated with high co-movements in sectors and individual companies. As such, they also provide attractive opportunities to reposition for longer-term themes.To contact the author of this story:          Mohamed A. El-Erian      at melerian@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Max Berley     at mberley@bloomberg.net

2018-04-05T19:26:46.240Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/former-mt-gox-ceo-karpeles-is-no-longer-a-bitcoin-believer
The former chief executive officer of the once-largest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox, said he no longer is a Bitcoin believer, and sounded pessimistic about cryptocurrencies in general.“The technology is definitely here to stay, but Bitcoin may have trouble evolving and keeping up,” Mark Karpeles said Wednesday in a chat on the online message board Reddit. “I could be wrong about this. I’ve been wrong about a lot of things.”Blockchain, the technology behind Bitcoin, is a distributed ledger that can be useful in everything from managing supply chains to making cheap international money transfers. Bitcoin slipped to its lowest level so far this year Thursday, and has declined 50 percent since the beginning of the year.Karpeles, originally from France, said he doesn’t own any Bitcoin. He also called Bitcoin’s main cryptocurrency rival, Ethereum, “too untested” for any kind of serious use.Once the world’s largest Bitcoin exchange based in Japan, Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy in 2014 after thousands of Bitcoins belonging to customers were found to be missing. Karpeles, who had been running the exchange since 2011, was arrested by Japanese police in 2015, and spent time in jail. There, he said in the chat, he lost 77 pounds in four months as “lunch was actually two breads with jam.” He is divorced, he said, but “my cat hasn’t left me.” He said he participated in the chat on advice of friends.Karpeles decided to speak after it was revealed, in March, that the Japanese trustee handling the Mt. Gox bankruptcy had already sold some of the company’s remaining Bitcoins to reimburse creditors. Because of peculiarities of Japanese law, Karpeles said that as a shareholder he could end up with more than $1 billion after the bankruptcy proceedings are over. In the chat, Karpeles said he hopes to return all that money to the exchange’s more than 24,000 creditors.Karpeles also remains on trial in Tokyo, accused of stealing money for personal use and making false deposits into the firm’s account. He has pleaded not guilty.Karpeles said he hopes to work again as an engineer -- but not necessarily for a cryptocurrency startup. Oh, and if a movie is ever made about the rise and fall of Mt. Gox, he said he’d prefer to be played by the actor Jack Black. “I really love the guy.”

2018-04-11T12:59:31.100Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-11/pay-gaps-fake-videos-and-losing-cowboys
My midweek, mid-country morning train reads:What are you reading?Source: Barron'sWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-09T15:26:53.320Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/winklevoss-s-gemini-to-offer-cryptocurrency-block-trading
Gemini, the digital-asset exchange run by the Winklevoss twins, is introducing a service that will allow investors to make big trades outside of the firm’s order books.The service will allow traders to buy or sell large quantities of Bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies and will compete with companies that cater to large institutional traders. Block-trading companies have recently popped up in Hong Kong, Australia and other markets to meet demand from hedge funds and similar institutional buyers. One such service, Circle Trade, is already directly moving more than $2 billion a month in crypto assets.Due to go live at 9:30 a.m. New York time on April 12, the Gemini Block Trading service will electronically broadcast orders to participating market makers simultaneously, the company said in a blog post Monday. Trade information will be published on Gemini’s market data feeds 10 minutes after the transactions are executed.Exchanges that list contracts in a so-called central limit order book are useful for trades under certain sizes, which is determined by underlying demand -- whether for corn futures or IBM stock. Orders beyond those limits move the market in ways that hurt the trader or signal to others the direction prices are headed.To avoid that, block trades are employed. A block trade’s size and price are negotiated privately off the exchange and then announced on the market in one fell swoop, often with a time delay to avoid triggering an outside price effect.Cryptocurrency markets like Gemini, which typically use order-book trading, are joining equity and futures markets in offering blocks. Until recently, block trades have only been possible over the counter, through market makers or investors willing to take the risk of dealing outside an exchange.

2018-04-10T08:00:00.013Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/while-the-world-cracks-down-japan-emerges-as-a-crypto-haven
Japan’s emergence as a global center for cryptocurrencies didn’t start with open-minded lawmakers or prescient investments by the country’s financial giants. Instead, it began with an American felon who arrived in the country looking for a fresh start.Roger Ver came to Japan in 2006 after getting out of prison for selling explosives online and stumbled upon bitcoin in its early days. He became an enthusiastic supporter who threw parties and gave away coins to encourage their use. He also forged a relationship with Mark Karpeles, a young Frenchman in Tokyo who bought Mt. Gox -- then the world’s largest bitcoin exchange -- and relocated its headquarters to the city. (Ver and Karpeles are featured on this week’s Decrypted podcast.)Roger VerTogether, the pair helped create a community of crypto experts who popularized the currencies, seeded early startups and persuaded government officials of the concept’s potential. That helped Japan emerge as a bitcoin haven, even as the rest of the world cracked down. It has maintained a supportive regulatory environment, despite troubles ranging from investor fraud to the $500 million hack of a Japanese crypto-exchange this year.“If it wasn’t for Mt. Gox, I wouldn’t have been involved with Bitcoin regulation at all,” says Mineyuki Fukuda, a former Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker who helped create the country’s rules.Bitcoin’s Wildest Days Are Over as Regulators Circle: QuickTakeAfter a boom in the popularity of cryptocurrencies, governments from the U.S. to China have proposed tight regulations or outright bans to prevent abuse. Japan has been particularly hard hit with hackers swiping a total of almost $1 billion.Mark KarpelesBut the nation’s lawmakers have remained firmly supportive. They’re moving to regulate new exchanges, rather than ban them outright. Last week, they took the first step toward legalizing initial coin offerings, or ICOs, a controversial fundraising technique outlawed in places like China and South Korea. Emboldened by the government’s stance, tech and financial firms are stepping up investment.“Personally I was thinking, OK, they’re probably going to take the Chinese approach of ‘We’re just going to ban this thing and nobody’s going to be able to do it again’,” says Thomas Glucksmann, a former employee of Mt. Gox. “But they kind of went the opposite way.”Ver didn’t have any of this planned when he came to Japan. He was a millionaire thanks to the same online business that landed him in trouble with authorities in the U.S. He said he’d had a Japanese girlfriend once and decided to move to the country in part to find a new one. Karpeles also landed in Japan on a whim, attracted by its culture and anime. After discovering Bitcoin in early 2011, Ver began buying coins on Mt. Gox and talking up the prospects for currencies independent of any government. He organized gatherings for enthusiasts, first at a fruit parlor and then at a bar in Tokyo’s Roppongi neighborhood. Bitcoin Jesus, as he became known, also gave away coins when they were worth about $1. (A single Bitcoin now trades at about $6,700.) He estimates he handed out more than 10,000 coins.“That would be worth more than $50 million dollars today,” Ver says.How Governments Regulate CryptocurrenciesVer stayed bullish even after Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy in 2014, sending prices tumbling. He says the laws Japan implemented last year in the wake of the bankruptcy -- regulating crypto exchanges and allowing bitcoin use in retail payments -- were more industry-friendly than he expected. But ever a libertarian, he says he’d prefer no rules at all.“I’m a bit averse to dealing with politicians, regulators and lawmakers,” says Ver, who resides in Japan but also holds citizenship in the tax haven of St. Kitts. “The regulators aren’t technologists. They don’t know about this.”Those laws are now responsible for an influx of corporate interest. Electronic retailers like Yamada Denki Co. have embraced bitcoin for payments. Large tech firms including messaging provider Line Corp. are launching crypto exchanges. And big banks are pouring millions into blockchain startups that promise to disrupt the financial order.“You’ve gone from Japan as this inconspicuous crypto hub which happened organically because of the presence of Mt. Gox and a handful of crypto evangelists like Roger Ver,” says Glucksmann. "To now very much a top down driven ‘Welcome to Japan. We want to be the crypto hub of Asia, if not the world’."Ver says he can’t take full credit for the country’s embrace of crypto, but agrees he played a role in the early years. Karpeles, still on trial for embezzlement charges related to Mt. Gox, didn’t respond to interview requests. But reflecting on the past decade, he wrote recently that he’s glad he came to Japan.“I’d guess I lost everyone except for a few close friends,” he wrote last week in online posts on Reddit. “I don’t regret it (despite all that happened).”For the full podcast, click here.— With assistance by Aki Ito, and Pia Gadkari

2018-04-10T20:22:08.212Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/your-evening-briefing
Want to receive this post in your inbox every afternoon? Sign up here. On Capitol Hill, lawmakers are grilling Mark Zuckerberg about how Facebook was used to help Russia meddle in the 2016 election. On Wall Street, the oft-predicted Bitcoin bubble-burst may be here, mirroring how the flu dies out. And at the White House, President Donald Trump has been told he's free to fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller at will.  Instagram looks like it might be Facebook’s best hope. Facebook's algorithm made it a tool for Russian propagandists. Cambridge Analytica used the company to access personal data from millions of Americans. Its stock price is down about 15 percent since mid-March. Politicians, users and Wall Street are on the warpath. What could possibly help this lumbering giant out of the ditch? We have an idea.Trump, angered over an FBI search of his lawyer's office, has been advised he can fire Mueller if he wants, the White House said. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, however, has said only he can fire the special counsel. And even Republicans have piped up to warn the administration against any rash moves.Trade talks between China and the U.S. broke down last week after the Trump administration demanded Beijing end support for high-technology industries. We could be here awhile.U.S. drivers are getting worse at avoiding apps, e-mail and other phone-based distractions while driving. More people use them behind the wheel, and for longer periods. Tragedy awaits.Passengers flying on Airbus planes will soon be able to slip down into the cargo hold for a nap, dozing off in plush berths that will initially be offered on A330 widebody aircraft.The richest zip code in America is just as exclusive and elite as the people who live there. Fisher Island, located just off Miami, is accessible only by ferry or water taxi.We’ve reached peak gingham. now comes the decline. The summer staple has hit the height of popularity. In a few months, it will likely be everywhere, from bars to beaches to parks to parties. But by fall, it will all be over.

2018-04-09T21:07:57.115Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jfsqat49
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereAll eyes will be on Xi Jinping’s speech in Hainan, especially given the recent back and forth between the U.S. and China about tariffs and trade. Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan has “a lot of work to do,” according to its reappointed head. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.President Donald Trump’s barrage of tariff threats have left China’s Xi Jinping needing to show he’s ready to retaliate against U.S. trade threats while demonstrating China’s commitment to freeing up its economy. Xi's first chance to hit back in person comes in a speech Tuesday at the Boao Forum for Asia on the tropical island of Hainan. Also, China is evaluating the potential impact of a gradual yuan depreciation, people familiar with the matter said. Senior Chinese officials are reportedly looking at the effect of using the currency as a tool in trade negotiations with the U.S., as well as what would happen if China devalues the yuan to offset the impact of any trade deal that curbs exports.Asia stocks looked set for a mixed start after U.S. stocks pared gains in the final hour of trading, with a report that federal agents raided the offices of President Donald Trump’s lawyer adding to the swoon. The S&P 500 Index gave back all but 0.3 percent of an advance that approached 2 percent earlier in the day. The late selling damped what looked to be a stellar rebound from last week, when trade angst rattled global financial markets. Instead, political risk related to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian meddling in the U.S. election resurfaced. Tech still outperformed as investors began to shift focus to the earnings season that starts later in the week. Treasuries ended the session little changed, while the dollar was broadly weaker. The Bank of Japan has a lot of work to do during the next five years, and that includes considering how to normalize monetary policy, according to Governor Haruhiko Kuroda. “We will make the best efforts to meet the price-stability target, and eventually we will also have to consider the process of policy normalization,” the 73-year-old said in Tokyo after being officially reappointed.China’s massive build program to recreate trade routes stretching from Asia to Africa and Europe is gaining momentum. Since President Xi’s flagship Belt and Road project was announced about five years ago, it gave impetus to billions of dollars of Chinese investment -- some of which were already in the pipeline for several years — to build railways, roads, ports and power plants. The program isn’t without controversy: debt risk is rising, an influx of Chinese workers has fueled tension with locals, and there are worries about China’s dominance in the region. And not all of the projects have succeeded. “It’s been a mixed bag so far,” said Michael Kugelman, a senior associate for South Asia at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington. “There have certainly been success stories, and there will be more of them too, but there have also been setbacks.”Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash’s most fervent supporters are at it again, and Twitter has become a bitter battlefield. @Bitcoin carries the name of the largest cryptocurrency but, just like Bitcoin.com, frequently issued statements supporting Bitcoin Cash, which split from Bitcoin last year over a disagreement on how the technology should scale. These posts don’t sit well with supporters of the original Bitcoin blockchain, known as Bitcoin Core. Meanwhile, Bank of America Corp. says the Bitcoin bubble — the greatest in history — is popping. This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Enda Curran, Toru Fujioka, Camila Russo, Faseeh Mangi, and Eric J Weiner

2018-04-09T14:37:23.630Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-09/deutsche-bank-s-new-ceo-was-there
Deutsche Bank.A well-known problem in corporate governance is that public-company chief executive officers tend to be the sort of people who become public-company chief executive officers, if you know what I mean. They are ambitious, driven, hard-charging people; they demand a lot of their subordinates; they never want to hear that anything is impossible; they are strategic thinkers who are always looking ahead to think how they can expand their business. That is often what you want in your CEO. But not always! Sometimes you want someone to lead a dignified retreat. Not every company should grow indefinitely; sometimes what is best for shareholders is to harvest the profitable businesses, prune back the unprofitable ones, and not waste any money pursuing ambitious new projects with uncertain prospects. Sometimes you want a CEO who, when his subordinates say "this is impossible," says "oh well never mind then." This is not exactly a hard quality to find -- ahem, here I am -- but it does seem to be a hard quality to find in a CEO.Anyway poor Christian Sewing:Deutsche Bank AG replaced its British chief executive, John Cryan, with the senior German head of its retail bank, a switch that signals a less ambitious future after years of grim financial results and sputtering attempts to regain a spot among global investment-banking powerhouses."May this never be said about your hiring anywhere," tweeted Josh Barro. And:"Sewing may not necessarily have been the top candidate but he was there and stood ready," Hans-Peter Burghof, a professor of banking at the University of Hohenheim in Stuttgart.And:Having joined Deutsche as an apprentice in the homely Westphalian town of Bielefeld, Sewing marks a contrast with globe-trotters such as former CEOs Josef Ackermann and Anshu Jain. ... Sewing burnished his standing within the bank in recent years by managing the downsizing of its domestic operations, and by curtailing the excesses of its investment bankers. He notably cut 188 branches and about 4,000 jobs from the German retail unit without provoking a strong backlash from German media, for whom Deutsche is a favorite punching-bag.Really he does sound like the perfect candidate to manage a retreat, but it is all faintly embarrassing. "'Our start to the year was solid but "solid" cannot be our ambition,' Sewing said in a letter to staff published Monday," which rings a bit false; surely "solid" is exactly what he was brought on for? As for the investment bank, here are some buzzwords that I think mean "we're going to keep cutting it unless we decide not to":“We’ll thoroughly analyze how we want to position this pillar of our bank in a difficult market environment,” he said. “The priority is to leverage our strengths and to allocate our investments accordingly. And at the same time we will look to free up capacity for growth by pulling back from those areas where we are not sufficiently profitable.”And my Bloomberg Gadfly colleague Lionel Laurent notes that Deutsche Bank's strategy now seems to be "more Deutsche, less Bank," with a smaller global footprint and reduced ambition.Longfin.There's a fairly straightforward way to do a stock scam. You found a company, you take it public, you keep control of most of the stock, you issue press releases saying that you've discovered a cure for cancer or whatever, people get excited, the stock goes up, you sell a bunch of it at the inflated price, you go to Belize. This is a good and popular scam but there is an important weak point in the procedure. When you sell stock to the public, as the controlling shareholder of a public company, you generally have to do a registered securities offering and deliver a prospectus to potential buyers. The prospectus has to have a lot of disclosure, and audited financial statements, and might be reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.And even beyond the details of the prospectus, there is a simpler problem, which is that if you tell public investors simultaneously that (1) you have discovered a cure for cancer or whatever and (2) you are selling a bunch of your stock, they are going to get a little suspicious. Why are you selling now?So if you want to do this scam without attracting the attention of the SEC or of investors, it is awfully tempting not to do a registered securities offering. You find a broker who doesn't know that you're an affiliate of the company and just quietly sell your shares on the exchange, or you find a friend who will sell your shares for you while pretending that they don't come from the company. This is illegal, of course, but it does improve your chances of cashing out and getting to Belize. We have talked before about Longfin Corp., a vague fin-tech-ish company that went public, almost immediately announced that it had acquired an even vaguer blockchain-ish company called Ziddu, and watched its stock soar until at one point it was worth more than $6 billion. Longfin's founder and chief executive officer was described in its offering circular as a "financial wizard," and it is perhaps useful to know that wizards aren't real. If a company is describing its CEO as a wizard, what else isn't real?Well, Friday the Securities and Exchange Commission "obtained a court order freezing more than $27 million in trading proceeds from allegedly illegal distributions and sales of restricted shares of Longfin Corp. stock involving the company, its CEO, and three other affiliated individuals." The SEC's complaint expresses skepticism about Longfin's, and Ziddu's, business:Prior to Longfin's acquisition, the Ziddu.com website had no ascertainable value. The website produced no revenue, and Longfin did not acquire any physical facilities, employees, market distribution systems, or production techniques. By the acquisition, Longfin acquired only the rights to use the Ziddu website and trade name. As of the date of acquisition, Longfin assigned a value of zero to Ziddu.com. But it doesn't really matter what the SEC thinks of Longfin's, or Ziddu's, business. The SEC is not accusing Longfin of deceiving investors about that business -- and, to be fair, Longfin's press release didn't make too many falsifiable claims about that business. Instead, the accusations are purely about unregistered stock sales: Various Longfin insiders (the broker who took it public, affiliates of its wizard-founder, etc.) are accused of selling stock in unregistered transactions that should have been registered. The SEC's burden here is simpler: It doesn't need to prove that investors were deceived or that Longfin published any lies; it just needs to show that these insiders were illegally selling stock.A lot of advocates for cryptocurrency think that the old-style SEC rules hold back innovation, that there are too many formalities and too much red tape. And that's not entirely wrong; the rules can be complicated and cumbersome. But you see here how they can be useful in investor protection. Proving fraud is hard, especially in a much-hyped new area like blockchain, where it can be hard to tell whether the promoters actually believe in what they are saying, or whether investors bought due to false claims or just general optimism. But registration requirements are a good way to stop fraud without having to prove that it's fraud, to force promoters to demonstrate honesty rather than requiring regulators to prove dishonesty. How's Mike Novogratz doing?I laughed out loud multiple times in the first two paragraphs of this Gary Shteyngart profile of Michael Novogratz:Michael Novogratz was in a good mood. It was the thirtieth reunion of Princeton’s class of 1987, and the on-again, off-again billionaire was getting a lot of respect. “I want to hit you up about something,” a two-star general said. “Those are the freshest kicks,” a young bro in a dressing gown observed, complimenting Novogratz’s black patent shoes with orange piping and matching tassels. (“It’s all about peacocking,” Novogratz later told me, of his sartorial extravagance.) He huddled with Joseph Lubin, a former roommate and one of the co-founders of the hit cryptocurrency platform Ethereum. It was a warm June day, last year, and the Princetonians were amiably crushing cans of Bud amid chants of “Tiger, tiger, tiger, sis sis sis, boom boom boom, ah!”The alumni parade, known as the P-rade, started to wind through the neo-Gothic campus, its mob of participants marching past signs for a symposium entitled “Can America Still Lead?” As we joined the P-rade, we heard shouts of “Novo! Novo! Novo!” He stopped by a gaggle of young wrestlers, all of whom seemed monumentally drunker than the rest of Princeton’s population—a notable distinction. Novogratz, formerly the captain of the college’s wrestling team, slapped a half-naked man on the back so hard that he left a red palm print. “I five-starred a guy!” he shouted as we continued down the P-rade, men running up to him as if he were the mayor of a small Sicilian hill town. “Mr. Novogratz! I’m Goldman corporate trading!”There are many other delights. There is this encapsulation of the rise of the buy side: "Around Manhattan, 'investment banker' now carries the same sad also-ran cachet as 'doctor' or 'lawyer.'" And there's a terrific case of the adage that "when bankers get together they discuss Art; when artists get together they discuss Money," this one about Novogratz's guru, Krishnaji:Krishnaji and Novogratz travelled across India in January of 2015, looking for distressed properties owned by India’s Central Bank in which to invest. During the trip, Novogratz told me, all he wanted was to meditate with Krishnaji, while all his business-minded guru wanted to do was work on their private-equity deals. But much of the story is about Novogratz's efforts in cryptocurrency, which included starting a crypto hedge fund but never launching it because Bitcoin prices got too high, and then moving on to "a publicly traded merchant bank solely for cryptocurrencies, which, with characteristic immodesty, he described as 'the Goldman Sachs of crypto,' and was calling Galaxy Digital."“Goldman Sachs can make money if the stock market goes up and if the stock market goes down,” Novogratz said. “That’s what we’re trying to build. Right now, we’re still going to be way correlated to the way the market goes for at least the first year or two,” he conceded. “But we’re trying to build enough diversity into the business that we can withstand hurricanes.” He told me that Galaxy Digital would combine his considerable crypto holdings with an asset-management operation, a trading business, a venture that would invest in new initial coin offerings, and an advisory arm that would counsel companies.Here's the thing. Let's not say "Goldman Sachs can make money." Let's say "Goldman Sachs can do useful things for clients if the stock market goes up and if the stock market goes down." I happened to be at Goldman Sachs in 2008, and I recall companies being very interested in our services, or at least, in the services they wanted us to provide. (We couldn't always provide them.) Companies always need money, and when the stock market is down, that need is more acute. Investment banks are in the business of intermediating the supply and demand for money, and that business has its ups and downs, but it never goes away. Is crypto there yet? When there is a crypto boom, people want to buy cryptocurrencies, and other people happily oblige them by selling cryptocurrencies. (Or by setting up hedge funds to buy cryptocurrencies, etc.) When there is a crypto bust ... are there still crypto transactions that need to get done? Is there a financial economy that relies on cryptocurrencies, that is about financing real activities rather than speculating on price moves, that will keep going whatever the price does? Does the concept of a "merchant bank for crypto" make sense through the cycle? Ray Dalio invented the Chicken McNugget.I ... did not know this. From an interview with Stephen Dubner for Freakonomics Radio:DALIO: Well, okay — I graduated from business school in 1973, and I traded commodities, and I love to trade commodities, and I love the mechanics of it. There was something about — you can grow a chicken and it’s so many pounds of this and that that makes the chicken come around and blah blah blah. And I had two clients at the time: McDonald’s and a chicken producer. And McDonald’s wanted to come out with the McNuggets. But there was a lot of volatility in the chicken market at that time and they were worried that if they set a menu price and the price of chicken then went through the roof that they would get squeezed or they’d have to raise the prices and it would be unstable.DUBNER: And were they worried that their introduction of the product was going to spike demand or spike price because of their action because they’re that big? Or orthogonal to that.DALIO: They were just worried that the cost of the chicken would go up. But there was not a way for them to hedge that, because there was not an adequate chicken market. But the producer of the chickens — since a chicken is mostly a little chick and then it has a lot of grain that’s added, and you could use the futures market — what I did is I showed him how we can hedge his cost and that he could provide a fixed price to McDonald’s for chicken McNuggets.DUBNER: He could hedge his costs by buying corn or buying or selling corn and soybean futures then, is that the idea?DALIO: Yeah, corn and soybean meal futures because that was where his volatility was. He could lock it through. And so by doing that we engineered that. I don’t know how interesting it is, but it was an engineering exercise.It reminds me a little of a well-known passage from Dalio's "Principles" for operating Bridgewater Associates:For example, when a pack of hyenas takes down a young wildebeest, is that good or evil? At face value, that might not be “good” because it seems cruel, and the poor wildebeest suffers and dies. Some people might even say that the hyenas are evil. Yet this type of apparently “cruel” behavior exists throughout the animal kingdom. Like death itself it is integral to the enormously complex and efficient system that has worked for as long as there has been life. It is good for both the hyenas who are operating in their self-interest and the interest of the greater system, including those of the wildebeest, because killing and eating the wildebeest fosters evolution (i.e., the natural process of improvement).If you think about things from the chicken's perspective, then you might be sad about the whole, you know, being turned into nuggets thing. But if you see the life and death of the chicken as a series of commodity interactions, a system of equations involving corn and soybean prices and blah blah blah, then you might see the chicken's death as "integral to the enormously complex and efficient system that has worked for as long as there" have been commodity futures markets, anyway. You can abstract away from the chicken to the economic machine; you can view life and death as just inputs and outputs of "the greater system"; you can view "the interest of the greater system" -- evolution, in the wildebeest story, but really the financial system -- as being an end in itself. Ted Chiang wrote a fascinating essay about how fears of artificial intelligence run amok are really just sublimated fears of financial capitalism:Consider: Who pursues their goals with monomaniacal focus, oblivious to the possibility of negative consequences? Who adopts a scorched-earth approach to increasing market share? This hypothetical strawberry-picking AI does what every tech startup wishes it could do — grows at an exponential rate and destroys its competitors until it’s achieved an absolute monopoly. The idea of superintelligence is such a poorly defined notion that one could envision it taking almost any form with equal justification: a benevolent genie that solves all the world’s problems, or a mathematician that spends all its time proving theorems so abstract that humans can’t even understand them. But when Silicon Valley tries to imagine superintelligence, what it comes up with is no-holds-barred capitalism.That Chicken McNuggets anecdote is basically a smaller-scale, or rather chicken-scale, version of that fear: financial capitalism as a self-perpetuating, self-referencing engine of life and death, as an abstraction that becomes real, with uncomfortable consequences for the chickens.Blockchain blockchain blockchain.Here, from Kai Stinchcombe, are some very entertaining sentences about blockchain. Such as:In fact, I would assert that there is no single person in existence who had a problem they wanted to solve, discovered that an available blockchain solution was the best way to solve it, and therefore became a blockchain enthusiast.And:People treat blockchain as a “futuristic integrity wand”—wave a blockchain at the problem, and suddenly your data will be valid. For almost anything people want to be valid, blockchain has been proposed as a solution.And:You actually see it over and over again. Blockchain systems are supposed to be more trustworthy, but in fact they are the least trustworthy systems in the world. Today, in less than a decade, three successive top bitcoin exchanges have been hacked, another is accused of insider trading, the demonstration-project DAO smart contract got drained, crypto price swings are ten times those of the world’s most mismanaged currencies, and bitcoin, the “killer app” of crypto transparency, is almost certainly artificially propped up by fake transactions involving billions of literally imaginary dollars. The deep point here is that "trust" is not an easy problem to solve through technology. With sufficiently advanced technology, you can demonstrate that a blockchain keeps, say, a tamper-proof accurate ledger of share ownership or voting results or whatever. But demonstrate to whom? Is everyone who uses the system going to read and audit the source code themselves? Or are they going to trust some external trusted third party to audit and certify the source code? Or are they just going to fall back on faulty pre-digital systems of trust, like reading the marketing materials and deciding if they're persuasive? The world is complicated, and trusting other people or institutions makes life simpler: Instead of auditing all the code yourself, you can rely on other people to know what is going on. To the extent that the crypto vision means abandoning trust as a lubricant of commerce, it is both dystopian and impractical.Things happen.Rusal Asks Aluminum Clients to Stop Payment After Sanctions. China Is Studying Yuan Devaluation as a Tool in Trade Spat. Toys Were Us: The Perils of Debt. Bond Traders Are About to Grasp the Magnitude of the Treasuries Deluge. Bad Omen for Markets From First Signs of Yield Curve Inversion. How Did the Big Four Auditors Get $17 Billion in Revenue Growth? Not From Auditing. Should workers have board seats? Goldman CEO's deputy can't stop, won't stop spinning records. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-09T14:17:50.202Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/ice-s-chief-says-crypto-trading-is-a-trend-we-can-t-ignore
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., the owner of New York Stock Exchange, on Monday refused to rule out starting futures contracts on digital currencies, following in the footsteps of two of its rivals.“There is a trend here we can’t ignore in my mind, so I don’t discount it,” Jeffrey Sprecher, ICE’s chief executive officer, said in an interview on Bloomberg TV. “People put more faith in a guy named Satoshi Nakamoto that no one has ever met than they do in the U.S. Fed,” he said, referring to the founder of bitcoin.Dozens of small exchanges have mushroomed in recent years to capitalize on the growing popularity of trading crypto assets even as theft and regulatory scrutiny curb some of the initial enthusiasm. Traditional exchange operators have rolled out offerings for their own customers to capitalize on the price volatility.In December, CME Group Inc. and Cboe Global Markets Inc. started futures contract on bitcoin, while Nasdaq Inc. is also considering introducing them.“People are more comfortable in technology than the institutions of government and society that I grew up with,” Sprecher said.— With assistance by David Westin, and Alix Steel

2018-04-10T09:00:11.661Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/youtube-and-facebook-are-losing-creators-to-blockchain-powered-rivals
Peter “Furious Pete” Czerwinski has close to 5 million YouTube followers, but they can’t see most of his new videos there. To get 46 of the 71 weightlifting and competitive-eating videos he’s posted in the past two months, fans have to use DTube. It looks a lot like YouTube, but video creators rely on donations from viewers instead of ad revenue, and the site’s moderators rarely try to censor potentially offensive material. Czerwinski, who made the switch two months ago, has said he felt his material could no longer get the circulation it deserved on YouTube. He didn’t respond to requests for comment.While YouTube has had to start taking a tougher line on censoring offensive videos that advertisers don’t want to be associated with, a growing swath of creators have fled to sites such as DTube to avoid the constraints. Like other upstart sites, DTube runs on the blockchain network Steem, and users can pay creators and commenters in digital tokens. That’s another point of distinction with YouTube, as well as with Facebook and Twitter. All three advertising-driven sites are phasing out ads for cryptocurrencies, shielding themselves from potential legal liability if the ads are scams or the digital coins are eventually regulated as securities. Video creators with an interest in cryptocurrency say that’s also a factor driving them away from the big names. In the wake of Facebook’s data scandal, privacy is a third. YouTube didn’t respond to a request for comment for this story; Facebook referred to previous statements that the company is working to repair its reputation but hasn’t seen a significant drop in users.The less centralized platforms keep more power—and potentially, privacy—in the hands of creators and users, says Ned Scott, who runs the Steem-based social network Steemit. In lieu of ads or selling user data, sites such as Scott’s rely on user growth to make their digital tokens ever more valuable. “The whole experience is more transparent,” he says. “There won’t be many single authorities dictating how social media operates.” Two-year-old Steemit has about a million accounts and added some 120,000 last month, according to Scott. Rival LBRY has about 600,000 registered users.That’s far from Facebook’s 2 billion monthly users, or even the up to 87 million whose data was given to Cambridge Analytica. But Naomi Brockwell, a video creator in New York who specializes in crypto material, says she’s already making an average of $40 a video in Steem tokens, which could take her months on YouTube. Brockwell says she needs to find alternatives to the name-brand social networks as they phase out ads on her videos. “I don’t think this is about protection,” she says. “This is about control.”Brockwell, like many creators on these newish sites, was initially skeptical that the Steem tokens were worth anything. And it’s something of a pain to exchange them for U.S. dollars: On most cryptocurrency exchange sites, you have to trade them for Bitcoin first, then swap the Bitcoin for cash. Easy enough, Brockwell says, given the upside.Creators can expect to retain significant control with blockchain sites because there are few barriers if they decide to leave, says LBRY Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Kauffman. Like email, he says, it’s relatively easy to switch to a similar site if you don’t like his. And because of the decentralized nature of blockchain networks, tech-savvy users can find ways to post controversial material, even if he tries to block or ban it.The flip side, of course, is that such lax rules can make these sites havens for precisely the kinds of hate speech, conspiracy theories, and otherwise undesirable material that YouTube and others are slowly taking action to block. Stemming the spread of those kinds of videos without compromising free speech or creators’ wallets has been a difficult balancing act. Nasim Aghdam, a YouTube creator from San Diego, complained to relatives repeatedly about the company’s compensation practices before she opened fire at YouTube’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., on April 3, killing herself and injuring three other people.If such services as DTube and Steemit are successful enough, their bigger problem may be YouTube’s or Facebook’s cash hoard, says Lance Morginn, CEO of the Blockchain Intelligence Group, which analyzes cryptocurrency transactions. Still, some platform creators say the big names are tarnished enough that there’s an opportunity for new ones. “Until now, I’m not sure people realized just how valuable their personal data is,” says Dan Novaes, co-founder and CEO of Current, a blockchain-based streaming site. “With blockchain, people will finally have the chance to be rewarded for their time, attention, and data. No longer will their valuable data be controlled by a few giant companies.”

2018-04-10T21:15:27.842Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jfu60bcq
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereInvestors breathe a sigh of relief after some positive comments from the leaders of the U.S. and China on trade, while oil and aluminum bulls get some good news and Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg testifies to Congress for the first time. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Stocks surged Tuesday following conciliatory comments from U.S. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping aimed at releasing some pressure from a trade dispute between the world’s biggest economies. Treasuries and the dollar fell. U.S. equity indexes rose, with the S&P 500 gaining 1.7 percent after Trump praised Xi’s “kind words on tariffs and automobile barriers.” In a keynote address Tuesday before the Boao Forum for Asia, China’s leader backed free trade and dialog to resolve disputes and pledged to open the nation’s banking and auto manufacturing sectors. Asian equities looked set for a mixed start Wednesday thanks to a lack of fresh impetus.It turns out that trade talks between the world’s biggest economies broke down last week after the Trump administration demanded that China curtail support for high-technology industries, a person familiar with the situation said, signaling that a resolution may be some ways off. Liu He, a vice premier overseeing economics and finance, told a group of officials Thursday that Beijing had rejected a U.S. request to stop subsidizing industries related to its “ Made in China 2025” initiative, the person said. The U.S. has accused China of using the policy to force companies into transferring technology in areas like robotics, aerospace and artificial intelligence.Oil jumped to the highest since 2014 after Saudi Arabia was said to seek higher prices and amid the overall risk-on mood in markets. The Saudis want to get oil prices near $80 a barrel to pay for the government’s crowded policy agenda and support the valuation of state energy giant Aramco before an initial public offering. Aluminum posted the biggest five-day gain since 2009 on fears of supply disruptions after United Co. Rusal was hit by U.S. sanctions. Rusal’s shares fell, while other producers climbed on optimism they will benefit from the company’s woes.A challenge for investors all over the world, corporate governance is becoming a particularly thorny hurdle for investors in China’s bond market as the amount of low or unrated borrowers swells. Investors have been lulled by years of implicit support for troubled local companies, but now with Beijing pulling back and allowing defaults, that buffer isn’t there anymore. With China’s dollar bond market coming off a record year for sales, the uptick in lower-quality issuance could spell trouble ahead. Bonds issued by high-yield and unrated companies have climbed to 55 percent of total sales this year, the most since 2011.Wednesday is inflation day, though it may turn out to be not so inflating. Japan reports PPI before China reports CPI and PPI, and economists forecast that all three will show a slower pace of price gains. Also of some potential interest will be Australian consumer confidence, which may retreat amid trade war angst and after the country's business sentiment fell back from recent peaks. And North Korea’s parliament is set to convene amid speculation the isolated nation may drop from its constitution a reference stating that it’s a nuclear power. Later on in the day the U.S. is expected to report core inflation climbed to reach the Fed's 2 percent target, while the FOMC will release minutes from its March meeting.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours. — With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Lianting Tu, David Yong, and Eric J Weiner

2018-04-10T10:24:59.222Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereChina’s Xi pledges “new phase of opening up,” Russian markets are getting clobbered, and Trump steps up Mueller attack. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.Chinese President Xi Jinping’s landmark economic speech came as a relief to investors as he sought to move away from confrontation with the United States, saying dialogue is the way to resolve disputes. Xi pledged a “new phase of opening up” the Chinese economy, reprising previous remarks, in a speech that did not mention Trump by name. While the emphasis on dialogue is being viewed as positive, the breakdown of trade talks last week -- which stalled over China’s support for its high-tech industry -- signal the difficult road ahead. The ruble plunged to the weakest level since December 2016 and the Russian stock market was lower again today following yesterday’s biggest plunge since the annexation of Crimea in 2014. The continuing fallout from Friday’s U.S. sanctions has hit Oleg Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal particularly hard, with one executive at a trading house calling the measures “economic murder of the company." The sanctions against billionaires connected to the Kremlin, coupled with the White House’s tougher stance on Syria, give investors little reason to increase exposure to one of the world’s most attractively valued markets. President Donald Trump described the FBI raid on the office of his personal attorney yesterday as a “disgraceful situation,” adding that he sees it as an “attack on our country.” The comments reflect Trump’s continuing frustration at Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe that has reached far into the president’s inner circle. Speculation is mounting that he may now undertake a purge of law enforcement officials, a move which would draw bipartisan condemnation. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.7 percent, while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.4 percent higher as stocks in the region reacted positively to Xi’s speech. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.7 percent higher at 5:50 a.m. Eastern Time as trade tensions eased and some companies issued positive-earnings updates. S&P 500 futures pointed to a gain at the open, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.801 percent and gold was unchanged. At 8:30 a.m., U.S. March PPI is published, with February wholesale inventories at 10:00 a.m. But the main event for today is likely to be the start of Facebook Inc. CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s two-day testimony to Congress. While he will present a mea culpa, investors will be looking out for how the company intends to remedy the errors that have led to recent data breaches. This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-04-11T14:09:32.383Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-11/banks-will-miss-libor-when-it-s-gone
SOFR vs. Libor.Libor, the London Interbank Offered Rate, is a lot of things. It is the standard interest rate for floating-rate loans: If a company borrows money at a rate that resets every three months, the rate that resets every three months is normally Libor. (Well, Libor plus a spread: A company might borrow at, say, Libor plus 3 percent or whatever.) It is the reference rate for trillions of dollars of interest-rate derivatives: If you are making some sort of bet on the future of interest rates, there's a decent chance that the interest rate whose future your betting on is Libor. Beyond that, it was -- it's not really anymore, but for a long time it was -- the standard "risk-free rate" that people would use in financial models for pricing other derivatives; if you bought, say, a call option on Microsoft stock, the formula for valuing that call option has a spot to plug in an interest rate, and the interest rate you'd plug in was probably Libor. Almost every part of the financial world was touched by Libor; it was plausibly "the world's most important number"; it was just part of the atmosphere, a basic given of the financial system.But deep down, at its origins, Libor was a simple risk-management tool for banks. The classic business of banking is borrowing short-term to lend long-term: Banks take deposits (short-term loans), and give out business loans and mortgages and stuff (long-term loans). If you borrow short-term and interest rates rise, you soon have a higher interest bill. If you lend long-term and interest rates rise, you don't get paid any more interest on those long-term loans. But if you instead lend long-term at floating rates -- if you reset the loan rate every three months -- then you do get paid more when interest rates rise; your interest-rate risk is reduced.Even better, though, if you lend long-term at Libor, then you really reduce your interest-rate risk, because Libor is notionally the short-term rate at which banks themselves can borrow. Libor, in its original form, was meant to represent the banks' cost of getting money to make loans, and Libor-based loans were a simple cost-plus model of lending. If a company borrowed at Libor plus 3 percent, then that meant more or less that the bank would pay Libor to get money, and lend it to the company at Libor plus 3 percent, and so lock in a profit of 3 percent on the loan. There is an obvious conflict of interest here, which is that Libor is calculated by surveying the banks to see what their cost of borrowing is, and the banks get paid on their loans based on Libor. So there's a simplistic incentive for the banks to respond to the survey "yeah our cost of borrowing is 30 percent, weird," so that Libor will be really high, so that they'll get paid a lot of money on their loans. It is a curious historical fact that that never really happened. Oh Libor absolutely was manipulated, but the manipulation wasn't really for the dumb simple reason that overstating your costs in cost-plus lending model will make you more money. Instead, as Libor became a vital reference rate for interest-rate derivatives, the banks' derivatives traders pushed their Libor submitters to manipulate Libor, up or down, depending on their positions. And then, as Libor became a proxy for the health of the banking system during the financial crisis, the banks' executives pushed their Libor submitters to understate Libor, to make them look healthier than they were. This manipulation was bad enough that Libor fell into disrepute, and regulators and market participants demanded a replacement, and slowly and creakily some replacements are coming online. In the U.S., the preferred replacement is the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York started publishing this month, and which is "a broad measure of the general cost of financing Treasury securities overnight." Libor is notionally the interest rate that banks pay to borrow money unsecured from each other for a night or a month or three months or whatever; SOFR is the interest rate that you pay to borrow money secured by a Treasury bond overnight. The advantage is that banks don't really borrow money unsecured from each other in all of the Libor tenors, so the Libor numbers are unavoidably made up; the repo market -- the market for borrowing secured by Treasuries -- is quite robust, so SOFR is based on real transactions and thus much harder to manipulate.But change is hard. Here is a fascinating post from Joe Rennison at Alphaville about how hard it will be to replace Libor with SOFR in the floating-rate loan market: Interest-rate derivatives markets are relatively willing to transition to SOFR, but "Libor has some features which work for the $4.1tn syndicated loan industry that are less crucial to the derivatives industry."There are at least four distinct things going on here. One is that there are a lot of existing loans that reference Libor, and they're not going to magically become SOFR loans overnight, so it will be a long time until SOFR replaces Libor as the most common reference rate for loans. (Or derivatives for that matter.) Another is that there are a lot of people -- bankers, lawyers, corporate treasurers -- who are used to Libor, and who will grumble a bit at having to change their documents and look up a new loan rate. These are both real and important social problems in the adoption of a new reference rate, but they're not particularly financially interesting.A third issue is that SOFR is an overnight lending rate, and no one wants a floating-rate loan that floats every day. Floating every three months is okay, but you want a little bit of predictability; you want your interest costs locked in for at least a quarter. Rennison:SOFR is an overnight funding rate that resets every day, whereas Libor measures a bank's cost of borrowing cash over different periods (one month, three months, six months, etc).Corporate borrowers say that Libor's term structure provides more predictability and helps them manage cashflow. And because no predictable term structure for SOFR exists just yet, treasurers will need to either stick with Libor until one is provided -- or grapple with the uncertainty of paying interest based on a daily rate.This does not strike me as an especially substantive problem. It's easy enough to build a three-month SOFR. A confession: When I was a banker, I thought for an embarrassingly long time that there was a thing called "five-year Libor." There is not. (The longest Libor is 12 months.) But there are interest-rate swaps that reference Libor, and there's a five-year swap in which I pay you a fixed rate and you pay me six-month Libor every six months, and that swap trades quite liquidly and is a good market reference point, and it is effectively an extension of Libor out to five years: The fixed rate on that swap is the fixed rate that buys you five years' worth of Libor. For many practical purposes -- figuring out what sort of rate a company should pay on a five-year bond, for instance -- that swap rate really works like five-year Libor.Similarly, if SOFR really becomes the standard reference rate for interest-rate derivatives, then it will not be a problem to find a fixed rate that buys you three months' (or whatever) worth of SOFR. And in fact that rate is coming pretty soon:The CME's launch of SOFR futures might help, since the contracts measure the compounded cost of interest over a three-month period. But there is still a difference between futures estimating a three-month borrowing rate and an actual three-month borrowing rate.  Eh, not really; a thing that lets you pay a fixed rate in exchange for three months' worth of overnight rates really does give you a three-month rate. (Here is CME Group's description of the SOFR futures, and the contract specification.) And it seems to me that there's no special trick about writing a floating-rate loan contract where the floating rate is not overnight SOFR but the three-month SOFR rate determined by the futures. A floating-rate loan indexed to SOFR itself would be annoying for a corporate treasurer, but a floating-rate loan indexed to three-month derivatives indexed to SOFR would be fine. And three-month SOFR, like actual SOFR, and unlike three-month Libor, would be computed by real market transactions rather than guesswork. (One hopes -- of course the SOFR futures market might not take off.) Derivatives markets might have made Libor unsustainable, but they could also make SOFR work.But there is a fourth issue, which is that Libor was fundamentally a risk-management tool for the banks, and SOFR isn't. Rennison hints at that issue here:The derivatives industry appears intent on moving away from Libor. If it does so before the loan market can figure out a way to create a long-term SOFR rate, it would create an entire new basis market between Libor and SOFR.Say Company Z gets a loan from a bank and then hedges out its interest-rate risk in the derivatives market by putting on an interest-rate swap (let's say receiving the floating side). The company would have a basis differential between its Libor-based loan and its SOFR-based hedge. But problems could easily arise if the financial system comes under stress. ... Its Libor-based loans would push up its borrowing costs in a banking crisis, while the payments it would receive from its SOFR-based swap would fall, as rising demand for Treasuries would depress overnight rates.So, yes, if companies borrow at Libor and hedge at SOFR, they will effectively take on the risk that banks' funding costs rise. But that problem doesn't go away if companies borrow at SOFR and hedge at SOFR. Instead it just becomes the banks' problem. Banks ... well, they don't exactly borrow at Libor, do they, but they borrow at something like Libor. They borrow at the rate at which banks borrow. Libor was meant to measure that, and that measurement broke down, but the point is that banks do more or less fund their business, at the margin, by short-term borrowing. If they make floating-rate loans indexed to Libor, and their cost of funds rises because people start worrying about the banking system, then their lending income will automatically rise, and they will be hedged. But if they make floating-rate loans indexed to SOFR, and their cost of funds rises because people start worrying about the banking system, then their lending income won't automatically rise -- it will probably fall -- and the problem will get worse. Libor gave banks a useful safety valve; it's a shame they ruined it.Don't short to zero!The way short selling works is that, if you want to bet against a stock, you borrow it from someone who owns it, and then you sell it to someone else. Eventually, you go out into the market, buy the stock back, and deliver it back to the person who owns it. If all has gone well, you will buy it back for less than you originally sold it for, and the difference will be your profit. Well, part of the difference will go to pay a fee to the stock lender, who will generally charge you a percentage for each day that you borrow the stock. But hopefully the stock will go down a lot, and the difference between your selling and buying price will more than cover that fee.How far do you want it to go down? This seems like simple stuff: If you sell the stock for $20, and it goes to $15, you make $5 (minus the stock-lending fee), if it goes to $10, you make $10; if it goes to $5, you make $15; if it goes to $1, you make $19, etc. etc. etc., the arithmetic is pretty straightforward. And yet there are weird singularities. If the stock goes to zero, I guess you make $20? That's the goal, right? Except, what does it mean for a stock to go to zero? If a stock goes to $1, that means that people are buying and selling it on the stock exchange for $1.00. But if it goes to zero ... who is selling stock for $0.00? "Go to zero" is a conventional expression, especially popular among short sellers, but you have to be careful with it. If a stock "goes to zero" by going from $20 to 2 cents, or if it "goes to zero" through a formal bankruptcy process, then that is a pretty unequivocal win for the short seller. But some other paths to zero are ... actually ... bad?Gates says he is stuck short China-Biotics, for instance, a stock that was halted in November 2013 when the Securities and Exchange Commission revoked its registration. The shares were delisted, and the company shut down. Gates showed us a January 2018 letter that he says he sent to the stock market record keepers at The Depository Trust Co., in which he laments that a TFS mutual fund has paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in stock-loan fees on China-Biotics and remained subject to the $2.50 a share margin required by Financial Industry Regulatory Authority rules. A handful of other short positions have him in the same predicament.Gates is Rich Gates of TFS Capital, who "has joined an industry committee that the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association calls the Worthless Securities Working Group." He shorted some stocks that he thought were frauds, and the SEC agreed that they were frauds and halted them, and then ... things got worse for him. The shares were worthless, but they didn't trade at zero or $0.01 or whatever: They didn't trade at all, so he couldn't buy them back to deliver to his stock lenders. Here is his letter to DTCC, which notes:DTCC maintains securities in its records indefinitely that are worthless and illiquid; these securities have not been "taken down" by DTCC despite the fact that they have been deregistered by the SEC, delisted by the exchanges, have no existing business location, operations, management or employees and their registration is not in good standing in their state of incorporation. Gates blames the brokers who loaned him the stock for this situation (and calls it "a glaring conflict of interest" for them), but that is not the whole story. "Gates’ prime brokers aren’t necessarily pocketing stock-loan fees—they may have to pass them on to other firms that supplied the borrowed shares," notes Bill Alpert at Barron's. The only way to (legally) short stock is to borrow it from someone who owns it, and your stock borrow fee makes its way back to that owner-lender (with brokers taking a cut). The actual conflict is that whoever was long China-Biotics stock is still making money from it in its limbo; if the stock borrow fees are high enough and the limbo goes on long enough, they might make more from the stock borrow fees than they would have if the company had been successful. The incentives in stock lending are always a little weird -- you are making a little extra money on the stock you own by helping someone bet against that stock -- but here they are downright perverse.Obviously this result is Wrong, and should probably be solved. ("Put them on the blockchain," you might shrug, though of course this problem has nothing to do with tracking ownership; it's about deciding when a company is not a company anymore, which is harder to blockchain.) Obviously the situation is not fun for Gates. I confess that it makes me rather gleeful. It is Wrong, of course, but it is Wrong in such an evocative way. It is, structurally, hard to bet on disaster, because when a disaster happens, that's when bets tend not to get paid off. If you bet on the end of the world, and you are correct, no one will be around to pay you. If you bet on the collapse of the financial system by buying credit-default swaps on banks, then you are probably buying those swaps from banks, and you'll have trouble collecting if your bet comes good. But that is true even in miniature: Even if you bet on a disaster for some penny-stock fraud, and even if that disaster occurs exactly as you predict, you might get swept up in it as well.Oops.I used to work at an investment bank, and part of my compensation was paid in shares of my bank, and a popular rule of thumb among low-level drones like me was that you sold your shares as soon as they were delivered. Senior partners might be doing wild stuff like buying more stock, or selling puts, or whatever, but they were rich. For the rest of us, our careers were already so leveraged to the health of our bank that it seemed silly to hold any more shares than we had to. So every year some of my stock compensation would become unrestricted, and I'd sell it that day.But I don't recall ever having selling reflexes quite as catlike as this:A Samsung Securities employee caused the firm to pay out a massive dividend in the form of its own shares to 2,018 employees who were members of a company stock-ownership scheme.The dividend was supposed to be 1,000 won ($0.94) per share. But the employee mistook the form of measurement, confusing won and shares. The error caused Samsung Securities to issue a dividend that was 1,000 times the value of each share held by the group of employees. ...Sixteen staff members sold a collective five million shares worth about $186.9 million minutes shortly after receiving them. It took the brokerage 37 minutes to completely block employees from selling the accidental shares, according to South Korea’s Financial Supervisory Services, a financial watchdog.Some of those employees -- ones who "sold stock despite receiving warnings from the company not to do so" -- have been suspended, and the transactions seem to have been reversed. But really those 16 Samsung Securities employees should be among the great folk heroes of finance. Imagine coming to work one day; expecting a nice, you know, extra $500 of company stock; checking your account the moment the stock is supposed to hit; finding an extra $19 million instead (Samsung Securities shares traded in the neighborhood of 38,000 won at the time, so paying 1,000 shares rather than 1,000 won was a 38,000-fold increase); carefully pondering the likelihood that you were supposed to get a $19 million bonus and the ethical and career implications of cashing it in; and then cooly putting in a sell order and blasting out the entire windfall -- all in the 37 minutes before your employer noticed the problem. That is the sort of careful attention to detail, decisive action, coolness under pressure, sense of humor and ethical flexibility that you want in a stock trader. If Samsung doesn't appreciate these people, I am sure someone else will.The crypto.I feel like these days I am constantly reading about hedge funds who had a few years of 30 percent returns and who are now down like 6 percent year-to-date and facing redemptions. So it's pleasing to read these absolutely cartoon numbers:Pantera Capital, a hedge fund that gained attention for returning 25,000 percent over its lifetime through the end of last year, saw the value of its cryptocurrency fund cut nearly in half in March, according to an investor letter Tuesday.Actually "the firm's Digital Asset Fund is down 54.9 percent year to date but is still up 10.3 percent life to date"; the 25,000 percent comes from its Bitcoin Fund. I suppose if your fund were up 25,000 percent and then down 50 percent, your investor letter could still be pretty swaggery. "We're up 12,500 percent cumulatively," you would say, "so, you know, whatever." Elsewhere in crypto, "The world’s first blockchain toothbrush lets you mine coins by brushing your teeth," and somehow it is not from Dentacoin. And: "In Defense of CryptoKitties." People are worried about bond market liquidity.Bloomberg Intelligence's Eric Balchunas pointed out on Twitter that "junk bond ETFs had biggest quarterly outflow ever" in the first quarter of 2018: "Assets shrunk by 10% pretty quickly w/ no issues." I made a similar point in February, when a junk-bond exchange-traded fund had the biggest daily outflow ever, and bond prices were fine. For a long time -- years? it felt like forever -- we talked in this space about people's worries that the bond market couldn't handle rapid withdrawals from bond ETFs, and that those ETFs were creating a "liquidity illusion" that could crash the market when investors withdrew money. Nope!Things happen.Wall Street Faces Higher Capital Demands Under Fed Proposal. BofA Will Stop Lending to Makers of Assault-Style Guns. Senators Tell Facebook CEO the Days of Self-Regulation May End. Instagram Looks Like Facebook’s Best Hope. Mark Zuckerberg has been apologizing for reckless privacy violations since he was a freshman. China Adds Flesh to Bones of Plan for Big Bang Financial Opening. Theranos Lays Off Most of Its Remaining Workforce. Russia Investors Offload Ruble as U.S. Sanctions Spook Market. Deripaska’s Two-Decade Wooing of U.S. Ends in Financial Meltdown. Carl Icahn to Sell Federal-Mogul for $2.44 Billion. Forest City Board Shake-Up Could Be a Harbinger for Other REITs. Tiny Town Shuts Police Program That Gave Robert Mercer a Badge. Koch Bodyguards Got Police Badges From Same Tiny Town as Mercer.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-09T16:30:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/fintech-firms-mybucks-naga-said-to-strike-africa-alliance
Financial technology firms MyBucks SA and Naga Group AG agreed to form a strategic partnership that would pair Naga’s cryptocurrency technology with the Luxembourg company’s banking applications in the African market, according to people familiar with the matter.MyBucks will offer Naga’s cryptocurrency wallet -- a mobile payment technology -- to its 1.5 million clients in Africa, Australia and other markets, the companies said in a statement on Tuesday, confirming a Bloomberg report late Monday. Naga’s wallet enables users to send and receive cryptocurrency payments via email and convert these into cash. The technology can also be used for stock trading and financial investments.Naga shares soared as much as 15 percent in Frankfurt, while MyBucks fell as much as 3.1 percent.The deal would help MyBucks, a consumer lender that listed in Frankfurt in 2016, to enter the lucrative remittance business between Europe and Africa, competing with incumbents including Western Union Co. and TransferWise Ltd. and advancing its goal of becoming a “fully inclusive” digital bank, it said.The partnership “is a great example of two companies joining forces to attract new clients in new markets and enabling their existing clients to do more business with us,” MyBucks Chairman Dave van Niekerk said in the statement. “This will gain both companies more market share and allow us deliver products and services to new markets. MyBucks is committed to financial inclusion and cryptocurrencies must be part of that solution going forward.”For Naga, which is backed by China’s Fosun International Ltd., the transaction opens a new market for its mobile payment wallet and cryptocurrencies including its own, dubbed Naga Coin. The World Bank in October last year estimated that remittances to Sub-Saharan Africa, where MyBucks operates, will grow 10 percent to $38 billion this year.Cryptocurrencies including bitcoin are increasingly accepted in most parts of Africa, where more people have a mobile phone than a bank account and where frequent political turmoil as well as inflation have weakened trust in local currencies.While cryptocurrencies are mostly unregulated, central banks in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Kenya and Nigeria have said they’re investigating policy frameworks.

2018-04-10T20:30:13.330Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-10/the-daily-prophet-commodities-heat-up-for-all-the-wrong-reasons-jfu4e4pk
From oil to aluminum, the market for raw materials is running on all cylinders. The Bloomberg Commodity Index surged again to cap its biggest two-day gain since the start of September, gaining 2.14 percent in the period. Oil jumped above $65 a barrel. Aluminum rose to cap its biggest five-day gain since 2009. Cotton closed at its highest in almost a month.Gains in commodities would normally be a good sign, reflecting a strengthening global economy. But that's hardly the case now. Today's higher prices are largely the result of concerns about the potential for a trade war between the U.S. and China, as well as sanctions against Russia. Plus, Saudi Arabia wants to push oil significantly higher, to $80 a barrel, to pay for the government’s crowded policy agenda and support the valuation of state energy giant Aramco before an initial public offering, according to Bloomberg News' Javier Blas. All this wouldn't be so disturbing if Citigroup’s economic surprise index for the global economy, which measures the data that exceed estimates against the data that fall below estimates, hadn't dropped below zero on Friday for the first time since July.The downside to higher commodities prices is that they tend to boost inflation expectations, which tend to damp demand for bonds and raise borrowing costs. Perhaps that's why some economists and investors are beginning to warn that the potential for stagflation shouldn't be ignored.A LOAD OF DEBTThe world is awash in (more) debt. The Institute of International Finance in Washington said the global economy added about $21 trillion of debt in 2017, bringing the total to $237 trillion. That equates to 318 percent of global gross domestic product, which the IIF frames as good news because that number is down from about 324 percent in mid-2017 thanks to the strong global economy. Regardless, there are plenty of signs that investors have had their fill of bonds. At the U.S. Treasury's auction of $30 billion in three-year notes on Tuesday, the largest for that maturity since 2014, dealers were stuck with 40.9 percent of the bonds, the most since September. Indirect bidders, which include foreign investors, pensions and mutual funds, purchased 47.6 percent, the least since September. Peter Boockvar, the chief investment officer at Bleakley Financial Group, noted in a research report that the results were concerning because not even the highest three-year yields in almost a decade were enough to spark strong demand. "It could certainly be because of rising supply," Boockvar wrote in a research note. "Maybe it’s the rise in inflation expectations, where the (three-year) inflation breakeven is hovering around (five-year) highs," he wrote. "Maybe foreigners continue to shy away from our debt. I don’t think though it’s because the market thinks the Fed is going to get more aggressive."STOCKS NAIL THE DO-OVERThe Standard & Poor's 500 Index was headed to a big gain on Monday, rising as much as 1.88 percent, before an inexplicable late-day selloff erased most of those gains, leaving the benchmark up a meager 0.33 percent. It seems that traders weren't about to let the same thing happen again on Tuesday. Aided by an afternoon tweet from President Donald Trump that was uncharacteristically conciliatory in tone toward China and trade, praising Chinese President Xi Jinping's “kind words on tariffs and automobile barriers,” the S&P was able to close 1.67 percent higher, not far from its high of the day. Apart from trade, stock investors have a lot to be bullish about. Companies will soon begin reporting first-quarter results, starting with the big money-center banks later this week, and analysts expect earnings growth rates to be the highest since the second quarter of 2011. Energy, financials and materials should lead the bottom-up consensus forecast for 16.5 percent growth in earnings-per-share, with all 11 major sectors expected to report profit gains -- a first since 2014, according to the strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence.THE EURO GOES ON A RUNEurope's shared currency is beginning to put together an impressive rally. The Bloomberg Euro Index rose for the third straight day on Tuesday, the first time it has done so since the start of March. Tuesday's increase was triggered by European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny, who told Reuters that the institution could lift its deposit rate alone when it starts raising borrowing costs. That fact that any ECB official is talking openly about raising interest rates is significant. But what was really impressive about the euro's gain is that it stayed higher even though the ECB later disowned Nowotny's comments, saying the views were his own and didn't represent the official view of the Governing Council. To be sure, the currency has had trouble holding these levels. The Bloomberg Euro Index reached the levels it did on Tuesday four prior times since the start of February, only to fall back in the following days and weeks. ECB President Mario Draghi gives a speech in Frankfurt on Wednesday that could either help the euro break through this area of resistance or send it lower yet again. In the ECB's annual report published Monday, Draghi wrote that “Looking ahead, we expect the pace of economic expansion to remain strong in 2018.”RUSSIA IN TURMOILEmerging markets spent a second straight day focused on Russia, as the ruble again fell more than 4 percent and surging borrowing costs forced the government to cancel some bond offerings in the wake of fresh sanctions by the U.S. But to one influential observer, Russia may be close to becoming a "buy," according to Bloomberg News' Ksenia Galouchko. “If there’s no further comments from the U.S., it could be a matter of days before the Russian markets start rebounding -- it could be the end of this week or the start of next week,” Sebastien Barbe, the Paris-based head of emerging-market research and strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, told Bloomberg News. He has been the most accurate ruble predictor since the second quarter of 2017. Some are comparing the latest turmoil in Russian markets to 2014, when the ruble fell to a record low at the height of the Ukraine conflict and there was an almost 50 percent drop in the price of oil. Now, the economic fundamentals and oil trading at around $70 a barrel play in Russia’s favor, according to Barbe. "Now that oil is calm, Russia is out of the recession, Putin was just re-elected, people will look at the asset prices, at the economic fundamentals and some will be tempted to buy amid expectations of stabilization,” he said.TEA LEAVESFew data points are as closely followed as the monthly report on the U.S. consumer price index. For much of the past year, the report has been signaling that inflation is in check. That could all change Wednesday, when the government is forecast to say that core consumer prices, which exclude food and energy, surged 2.1 percent in March from a year earlier and up from a gain of 1.8 percent in February. That 0.3 percentage-point increase would be the biggest from the previous month since September 2004. Why such a big jump? An unusual plunge in costs for mobile-phone services in March 2017 that has weighed on the core consumer-price index is now set to fade, according to Bloomberg News' Shobhana Chandra. Markets are on watch for signs of price pressures that could trigger a faster pace of interest-rate increases. On Monday, the National Federation of Independent Business said its monthly survey found that a greater share of small-business owners reported higher average selling prices.If you’d like to get The Daily Prophet in e-mail form, right in your inbox, please subscribe to this link. Thanks!DON'T MISSThe 200-Day Average Isn't a Reliable Sell Signal: Ben CarlsonBahrain Shale Find Should Put Oil Market on Notice: Robin MillsChina's Strengths in Trade Spat Are Its Weaknesses: Daniel MossTrump Pushes Europe Closer Toward China: Ferdinando GiuglianoLessons on Financial-Market Bubbles From Bitcoin: Noah Smith      Professionals offering actionable insights on markets, the economy and monetary policy. Contributors may have a stake in the areas they write about.    

2018-04-09T17:01:43.870Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/novogratz-s-galaxy-is-said-to-lure-kim-from-goldman-sachs-as-coo
Mike Novogratz’s cryptocurrency merchant bank hired Richard Kim from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as chief operating officer, according to people with knowledge of the matter.Kim, a London-based vice president at Goldman, will join Galaxy Digital in the coming weeks and likely move to New York, said one of the people, asking not to be identified because the information is private. Kim left Goldman Sachs in recent weeks after serving in an administrative-type role within the foreign-exchange business, another person said. He was among those working to set up a Goldman desk for trading cryptocurrencies.He is the latest crypto expert to leave Goldman Sachs as wild swings in prices for Bitcoin, Ethereum and other digital currencies attract Wall Street traders, tech investors and regulators. The phenomenon has brought out supporters and detractors, who see a chance to get rich quickly, an opportunity for criminals to hide their money, or the best way to dramatically disrupt how the world pays for things.In January, former Goldman Sachs executive Michael Bucella took a business-development role with BlockTower Capital, one of the leading crypto-investment firms. BlockTower was co-founded by Matt Goetz, who exited the Wall Street bank last year. James Radecki left Goldman in 2016 and now serves as global head of business development at Cumberland Mining, one of the largest traders of cryptocurrencies.Kim won’t be the only Goldman alum at Galaxy either. In addition to Novogratz, who worked at the bank in the 1990s, Luka Jankovic, formerly a hedge fund analyst there, joined the venture last year, according to his LinkedIn profile.Goldman Sachs spokeswoman Tiffany Galvin-Cohen and Novogratz declined to comment. Kim didn’t respond to a LinkedIn message seeking comment.Novogratz, 53, a former U.S. Army helicopter pilot who spent a decade at Goldman Sachs before joining the buy side, raised about $250 million for his cryptocurrency effort earlier this year. The New York-based firm plans to trade crypto as well as make principal investments, manage assets for other clients and provide advice on blockchain-related ventures.Galaxy Digital marks a comeback for Novogratz, a former Goldman partner who left Fortress Investment Group LLC in 2015 after the macro hedge fund he managed there lost money.— With assistance by Julie Verhage, and David Scheer

2018-04-06T18:01:55.331Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-06/credit-suisse-banker-known-for-preaching-crypto-is-said-to-leave
Credit Suisse Group AG banker Brian Wirtz, known for proselytizing on Bitcoin and blockchain technology, is leaving after five years, according to people familiar with his departure.Wirtz, an investment banker in the technology, media and telecommunications group, tried to get the bank more involved in cryptocurrencies and related deals, said the people, asking not to be identified discussing personnel matters. In his LinkedIn profile, Wirtz says he specializes in “Blockchain and crypto-asset investment-banking advisory.” He’s starting a venture to work with security token offerings, one of the people said.Zurich-based Credit Suisse is among banks that have expressed skepticism of crypto, as Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam has cited regulatory uncertainty around digital currencies. Still, the Swiss bank hosts crypto conferences in New York and San Francisco that are attended by hundreds including hedge fund managers trading Bitcoin.Credit Suisse has refrained from advising clients in the cryptocurrency transactions, the people said. It does work on blockchain, which is the digital ledger underpinning cryptocurrencies. Among the bank’s staff are Emmanuel Aidoo, who heads blockchain strategy, and Paul Condra, an equity research analyst who has written about Bitcoin and blockchain.Wirtz previously worked at boutique banks Harris Williams & Co. and Cowen & Co., according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records, and joined the Swiss bank in 2013. Credit Suisse declined to comment on his departure.For more on Credit Suisse’s effort, click here.— With assistance by Lily Katz

2018-04-02T15:34:01.244Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-02/bitcoin-network-researchers-see-substantial-overvaluation
Given Bitcoin’s meteoric rise in 2017, and persistent slump this year, it’s easy to wonder just how much the digital currency is really worth.Researchers at ETH Zurich say they may have found an answer: Bitcoin’s value is based on the network of people who use it. And they suspect that the currency is overvalued.Drawing on a modified version of a model that assigns networks a value proportional to the square of the number of active users, and an equation that can capture how speculative bubbles evolve and grow, researchers at the Swiss university were able to observe how the cryptocurrency’s value rises with participation.Additionally, by pulling from past data, the researchers say they can now better track and spot potential future crashes. On at least four different occasions -- one each in 2011, 2012 and 2013 plus the most recent at the end of 2017 -- the model had determined a fundamental value was heavily exceeded by bubbles that grew and burst.Their analysis “indicates current support levels for the Bitcoin market in the range of $22–$44 billion, at least four times less than the current level,” the researchers said, according to a March 29 MIT Technology Review article.Currently, the Bitcoin market looks a lot like it did the year following the Mt. Gox trading system crash, according to the researchers.All of this spells trouble, they said: “Our analysis identifies a substantial but not unprecedented overvaluation in the price of Bitcoin, suggesting many months of volatile sideways Bitcoin prices ahead.”Bitcoin currently hovers at around $7,000, having lost more than half its value this year.

2018-04-09T11:01:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-09/blockchain-latest-death-knell-of-an-old-school-utility-model
If utilities think rooftop solar panels and batteries are bad for business, blockchain should scare the bejeezus out of them.That’s because in addition to helping more people slap panels on their rooftops -- which eats into power sales and taxes grids -- the distributed, digital ledger that’s proliferated across industries can also be used to trade electricity without a utility even knowing it. Imagine your neighbor with a solar panel directly selling you cheap power to charge your Tesla.Sure, there are some utilities that see the future and are trying to use blockchain to their advantage, but others ignoring it may soon start losing business to new hyper-local energy suppliers with a powerful tool to manage billions of data points cheaper and faster.Consumers in California's competitive power market are increasingly getting their power elsewhere. Portion of demand met with non-utility sources is accelerating.

Source: PG&E regulatory filing“It’s changing the entire infrastructure,” said Jan Vrins, head of Navigant Consulting Inc.’s energy practice. “If utilities don’t embrace it and play a role, they will have a slowly sinking business.”Read More: All About Bitcoin, Blockchain and Their Crypto World: QuickTakeBlockchain’s expected to be top of mind at this week’s Bloomberg New Energy Finance summit in New York this week, where hundreds in the industry will gather to discuss the future of energy. BNEF is estimating that $9 trillion will be spent on zero-carbon power generation through 2040 -- and Vrins sees the technology aiding those investments. Before the summit begins, here are a few early blockchain efforts to know about and how they may disrupt the utility model:This year, Burlington, Vermont, may become the first municipal utility to use blockchain to get generation assets working together across its grid. The city will use the technology to manage supply and demand in real-time, according to Killian Tobin, chief executive officer of Omega Grid, the blockchain software provider that’s helping Burlington set up its system. Think batteries charging when there’s excess wind power, and businesses automatically drawing down power demand when electricity prices are high.Efforts like this threaten to take command-and-control duties away from utility engineers and reduce the need for equipment upgrades that electric companies rely on for profits.“We’re starting with a small utility and some micro-grids, but we want to deploy on an entire grid,” Tobin said.Germany’s Tennet TSO GmbH is working with batterymaker Sonnen GmbH and International Business Machines Corp. to form a virtual transmission line that uses blockchain to store excess power from wind farms in thousands of home batteries in the northern part of the country and unleash power pent up in the south.Such efforts could eliminate the need for new power lines that utilities depend on for returns.Trading is the focus of a lot of blockchain pilot projects. Lawrence Orsini, chief executive officer of LO3 Energy, is credited with facilitating the first peer-to-peer energy trade of solar power on a microgrid in Brooklyn, New York, in 2016. The same platform will also be used in Houston to help a group of businesses use their own resources to “micro-hedge” against swings in power prices instead of relying on a utility to do it for them.Blockchain could help utilities in some ways. Tokyo Electric Power Co. wants to win back consumers, reversing an almost 15 percent decline in its customer base since the Japanese government opened up the industry to retail competition. The country’s largest power provider formed a unit called Trende that will compete for customers with a solar and storage package and enable peer-to-peer power sales through blockchain.Even Orsini cautioned that blockchain efforts are still in a testing phase and that the ultimate uses of the technology may differ from early experiments.“This is not a revolution or a disruption,” he said. “It’s an evolution.”— With assistance by Brian Eckhouse, and Dave Merrill

2018-04-09T09:00:11.954Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-04-09/yes-these-chickens-are-on-the-blockchain
Did the chicken you just buy at the supermarket have a nice life, roam free, and eat healthy grains? If you’re the kind of person who cares, Carrefour SA, the big France-based grocery chain, has the bird for you. Every chicken it sells under its house brand comes complete with its very own life story, thanks to the wonders of blockchain software. All you need to do is scan the label with your smartphone to get all the details.This is the same technology that serves as the backbone of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. The grocery giant isn’t just trying to appeal to discriminating foodies. It wants to do whatever it can to ensure its products aren’t tainted, part of a broader industry trend that buys into the as-yet-unproven promise that blockchain can improve food safety.Nestlé, Dole Food, Unilever, and Tyson Foods are working with their biggest customer, Walmart. Kroger and JD.com, China’s second-largest e-commerce operator, have also joined the same blockchain platform built by International Business Machines Corp. Carrefour developed its own system in-house.“There’s no question about it, blockchain will do for food traceability what the internet did for communication,” says Frank Yiannas, Walmart Inc.’s vice president for food safety and health.Yiannas cites estimates that for every 1 percent reduction in food-borne diseases in the U.S., the economy would benefit by about $700 million from increased productivity, thanks to reduced illness and fewer days lost at work.Not everyone is so enthusiastic. Critics say blockchain can be a valuable piece of the food-safety puzzle but caution that it can easily be gamed. The online ledger requires manual entries, leaving it prone to human errors or intentional manipulation that could compromise the data chain, says Mitchell Weinberg, chief executive officer of New York-based Inscatech Corp., which investigates food sourcing for evidence of fraud. Messing with the digital ledger, he points out, doesn’t take a tech genius.“Wouldn’t criminals know how to cheat the blockchain?” Weinberg says. “How would it help with anything fluid or ground-up or chemical in nature? Those can be easily adulterated, and blockchain will never know how, when, or by whom.”That’s what happened in China in 2008 when melamine, a white crystalline compound used in plastics production, was added to water-diluted milk to increase its protein content. At least six infants died and almost 300,000 fell ill after consuming the altered milk, prompting a massive product recall.By making suppliers more accountable, proponents say adoption of the technology would help reduce some of the headline-grabbing food tampering of recent years: wood pulp blended with Parmesan cheese, horse meat passed off as minced beef, and plastic mixed in frozen chicken nuggets. Such meddling, health dangers aside, costs the food industry as much as $49 billion a year, according to the Washington-based Grocery Manufacturers Association, which estimates a tenth of the food purchased in the U.S. is adulterated.Reducing waste is another goal. Recalls contribute to the 133 billion pounds of food the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates is lost in the country every year. That accounts for as much as 40 percent of the nation’s food supply, the USDA says.So, let’s say there’s a norovirus or listeria outbreak associated with spinach at your local grocer. The current system may require recalling vast amounts of spinach from around the country, because it’s so difficult to identify the origin of contaminated food. With blockchain, grocers can quickly pinpoint the source, narrowed to a single region or even a single farm.Once in stores, blockchain data—combined with sensors and computer models—could help grocers better gauge the shelf life of produce, according to Donna Dillenberger, an IBM research fellow. Historical information, collected from temperature sensors on the shelf, could be run through predictive models to determine the optimal temperature for, say, strawberries.Blockchain is making its way to sea, as well. The World Wildlife Fund is testing a combination of radio-frequency identification sensors and blockchain software to track the transport of a tuna on its way from fishing boat to processing plant, according to Bubba Cook, the western and central Pacific tuna program manager. The idea is to discourage the introduction of illegally caught fish to the food supply.It won’t be a foolproof system, says Cook, but “blockchain offers a platform that makes illegal or unethical practices infinitely more discoverable than the currently diffuse and opaque supply chains.”—With assistance from Lydia Mulvany, Olga Kharif, and Robert Williams 

2018-04-07T13:48:44.175Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-07/ai-keynes-and-zuckerberg
The weekend is here! Pour yourself a mug of coffee, grab an aisle seat and get ready for our longer form weekend reads:Source: BloombergWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-05T16:00:00.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/snb-sees-blockchain-scope-for-payments-securities-settlements
The technology on which digital currencies such as Bitcoin are based has the scope to reshape securities settlement and cross-border payment systems, according to the Swiss National Bank.“The underlying distributed ledger technology does indeed have potential, especially in complex areas such as securities settlement and cross border payment transactions,” SNB Governing Board Member Andrea Maechler said in a speech in Zurich on Thursday. “Nevertheless, the technology still has to prove itself in practice.”Nine years after Bitcoin’s birth, central banks around the world are recognizing the potential upsides -- and downsides -- of digital currencies. The decentralized ledger technology on which they are based has also caught Wall Street’s attention because it could vastly reduce costs while speeding up trade clearing and settlement times.Read More: What the World’s Central Banks Are Saying About CryptocurrenciesReiterating the line taken by SNB Vice President Fritz Zurbruegg in February, Maechler also said a central bank-issued digital currency wasn’t necessary for the general public. It would have hardly any advantages and would lead to financial stability risks, she said.— With assistance by Eddie van der Walt

2018-04-05T18:16:16.011Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-04-05/bonds-classic-safe-haven-from-turmoil-hide-in-plain-sight
Watch volatility spike, and then watch investors scatter for safety. Only this time, they don’t seem to know where to hide.After years of calm, market turbulence has returned. The annualized daily standard deviation of the S&P 500 Index -- a common measure of volatility -- has been 18.6 percent from 1928 through March. But the market was much quieter from 2012 through January, with a standard deviation of 12 percent.That quiet ended abruptly in February. The S&P 500 tumbled 8.5 percent in just five trading days from Feb. 2 to Feb. 8, and its standard deviation has spiked to 23.4 percent since February.The recent market calm ended abruptly in FebruarySources: Bloomberg, author's calculationsInvestors customarily take comfort in bonds when the market teeters, but their faith has been shaken by years of low interest rates not seen since the 1950s and paltry bond returns. The Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index has returned just 2.1 percent annually from 2012 through March.And investors are rightly even more morose about the future. The correlation between yields on long-term U.S. government bonds and subsequent 10-year annualized returns was a near-perfect 0.92 from 1942 to February 2008, the longest period for which numbers are available. (A correlation of 1 implies that two variables move perfectly in the same direction, whereas a correlation of negative 1 implies that two variables move perfectly in the opposite direction.)Bond yields have been highly correlated with subsequent medium-term returnsSources: Bloomberg, Federal Reserve, author's calculationsNote: Yield on 20-year U.S. government bonds from 1942 to March 1953, and average yield on 10-, 20- and 30-year U.S. treasuries from April 1953 to March 2018. In other words, bond yields are good barometers of expected returns over the medium term, with one small caveat: During periods when interest rates are rising, yields tend to overstate future returns, and vice versa.The last eight decades are instructive. From the 1940s to the early 1980s, yields on long-term government bonds rose from roughly 2 percent to upwards of 15 percent. Rising yields were a drag on returns because bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. The average yield was 4.8 percent from 1942 to a peak in September 1981, but the average subsequent 10-year return was 4 percent a year.It was just the opposite over the last four decades. The yield on long-term government bonds has fallen to roughly 3 percent since September 1981. This time, falling yields boosted returns. The average yield was 7.3 percent from October 1981 to February 2008, while the average subsequent 10-year return was 9.2 percent a year.It’s a mistake, however, to assume that bonds’ muted outlook will hamper their ability to hold up during market downturns.In fact, during the 20 bear markets since 1928 -- as measured by a decline of 20 percent or more in the S&P 500 -- the average return from long-term government bonds was 5 percent, and the median return was 3.2 percent.Bonds have been a reliable store of value during bear marketsSources: Bloomberg, S&P, author's calculationsImportantly, bonds managed to hold their ground during the seven bear markets between 1946 and 1974 when yields were low or rising. The average return was a negative 1.5 percent, and the median was a negative 0.3 percent. That compares with an average cumulative total return for the S&P 500 of negative 20.7 percent and a median of negative 21.8 percent.The one notable exception over those 20 bear markets was that bonds returned a negative 14.6 percent from December 1968 to June 1970, compared with a negative 29.2 percent for the S&P 500.Investors should consider that history when looking for shelter, as well as that of other perceived safe havens. In 1968, members of the so-called London gold pool, including the U.S., agreed to allow the private market price of gold to fluctuate. There have been six bear markets since then. Prices rose during four of those bear markets, but gold disappointed during the other two, falling 11 percent from December 1968 to June 1970 and 44.7 percent from December 1980 to July 1982.Gold’s penchant for drastic declines is reminiscent of another currency that some think is a reliable store of value. Bitcoin’s price history stretches back only to July 2010, and there haven’t been any bear markets since. But there have been four corrections -- as defined by a decline of 10 percent or more in the S&P 500 -- and Bitcoin has been shaky. The cryptocurrency declined in three of four of those corrections, most recently by 24.9 percent from Jan. 29 to Feb. 8.None of this means investors should dump their stocks -- all-in-all-out market timing moves are doomed to fail. But there’s a good reason 40 percent of the classic 60/40 portfolio is reserved for bonds. And there’s no better time to be reminded.To contact the author of this story:      Nir Kaissar in    New York at nkaissar1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Daniel Niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-03T20:43:48.965Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-03/brainard-says-valuations-elevated-bitcoin-volatility-extreme
Asset valuations are stretched across a broad set of financial markets and some cryptocurrencies have witnessed “extreme volatility,” Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard said, though overall risks to the financial system are still low.“Estimates of risk premiums and spreads in a range of markets remain narrow by historical standards,” Brainard said Tuesday in prepared remarks at New York University’s Stern School of Business.She said corporate bond yields are low, while spreads on high-yield bonds over Treasuries are near the low-end of their historical range.“One area that the Federal Reserve is monitoring is the extreme volatility evidenced by some cryptocurrencies,” she said. “For instance, Bitcoin rose over 1,000 percent in 2017 and has fallen sharply in recent months.”While these markets may raise important investor and consumer protection issues, she said it was less clear if they could pose a threat to financial stability.U.S. central bankers have raised the benchmark lending rate six times since December 2015, yet the actions have had little bite on financial conditions as stocks continued to rise and credit spreads remain narrow. Brainard discussed a range of Fed tools during her speech, particularly market surveillance, stress tests and strengthening of the banking system with higher capital requirements.Given tight valuations now, “asset prices might be particularly susceptible to an unexpected development that accentuates downside risks to the macroeconomic outlook,” Brainard said, citing the potential for high inflation or policy uncertainty that boosts Treasury yields.Tax cuts and government spending signed by President Donald Trump “should boost the economy” the at a time when it is close to full employment.“It is hard to know with precision how the economy is likely to respond,” Brainard said. “Historically, such episodes tended to see a risk of accelerating inflation in earlier decades or a risk of financial imbalances in more recent decades.”

2018-04-06T10:27:31.010Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-06/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTrade tensions are rising again, it’s jobs day, and markets are falling again. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.The war of words between the U.S. and China escalated again after President Donald Trump ordered his administration to consider tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods, with Beijing saying it would counter the moves “to the end, and at any cost.” The tit-for-tat nature of the public pronouncements on both sides is putting pressure on markets, with Wall Street futures dropping in early trading. One problem China is facing with taking the tariff route is that it will soon run out of U.S. imports to target, which may push the country towards seeking other avenues for reprisal. Some market participants are starting to express concern that it may start running down its holdings of U.S. Treasuries. At 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, the U.S. jobs report for March is published, with expectations for employers to have added 185,000 positions in the month, a still-robust performance following February’s blow-out 313,000 gain. Average hourly earnings are predicted to pick up to 0.3 percent in the month, with the unemployment rate falling to 4 percent. Treasury bears, looking for the still-elusive 3 percent on the 10 year, are hoping a positive number will help provide the impetus to hit their target. It’s all about trade tensions in markets again this morning, with the yo-yo week continuing as global equities follow yesterday’s gain with losses today. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped less then 0.1 percent as Hong Kong markets reopened after a holiday, while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.3 percent lower. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.5 percent lower at 5:45 a.m. Eastern Time with stocks slipping after notching their biggest one-day gain since June 2016 yesterday. S&P 500 futures were down 0.7 percent, the 10-year yield was at 2.819 percent and gold was broadly unchanged. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell is due to give a speech on the economic outlook in Chicago at 1:30 p.m. today, with his words gaining more significance amid rising trade tensions. Also on the Fed speaker calendar today is current San Francisco, and soon to be New York Fed President John Williams, who will deliver his views on the economic outlook at 4:00 p.m. in Santa Rosa, California. Crude is heading for its worst week in a month as Trump’s latest trade threat sours investor sentiment on the global economy. A barrel of West Texas Intermediate for May delivery was trading at $63.27. At 1:00 p.m., the Baker Hughes’ latest U.S. rig count is due with investors looking for an improvement following last week’s decline by the most since November. Copper and soy beans are also down in trading today as the market unwinds some of the optimism from yesterday’s it’s-only-a-negotiating-position rally. This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-04-05T10:14:05.898Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/india-studying-digital-currency-extends-crackdown-on-crypto
India’s central bank is exploring the creation of a digital currency even as it escalates a crackdown on existing instruments such as bitcoin.The Reserve Bank of India has set up a panel to study the desirability and feasibility of introducing a virtual currency, and the group will submit its report by the end of June, the RBI said in a statement on Thursday. However, it also said it is banning banks and other regulated entities from providing services to users, holders and traders of cryptocurrencies.“It has been decided that, with immediate effect, entities regulated by RBI shall not deal with or provide services to any individual or business entities dealing with or settling virtual currencies,” the RBI said. “Regulated entities which already provide such services shall exit the relationship within a specified time. A circular in this regard is being issued separately.”Read: Central Banks Urged to Study Digital Currency Risks and RewardsIndia doesn’t consider cryptocurrencies as legal tender and is opposed to their use given that they can be a channel for money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank for International Settlements last month said digital currencies are a revolutionary tool that central banks should consider, but they remain far too risky to be used as legal tender any time soon.The world's big tech firms are getting into India's payments marketSource: Credit SuisseThe central bank also ordered payment service providers to store data on servers in India, and gave them six months to comply. Detailed instructions will be issued within a week, the RBI said.— With assistance by Ravil Shirodkar

2018-04-05T09:03:37.226Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/south-korean-crypto-exchange-executives-detained-in-fraud-probe
South Korean prosecutors detained four executives from two cryptocurrency exchanges on allegations of embezzlement and fraud as regulators crack down on virtual currency trading in one of the world’s busiest bitcoin markets.Among those detained are the heads of Coinnest and another unidentified cryptocurrency exchange, said Jeong Mi-ran, press officer with the Seoul Southern District Prosecutors’ Office. Prosecutors are investigating allegations the executives siphoned funds out of client accounts into their own, Jeong said. A request for arrest warrants will be made soon, she said.A representative for Coinnest couldn’t be reached for comment Thursday. On its website, the company said it had divided up management roles since the investigation began.The exchange is operating normally and “our customers’ deposits are being securely maintained,” the company said.A hotbed of digital currency activity, South Korea has been moving to control trading activity, banning initial coin offerings last year and mulling restrictions on local exchanges. Concern cryptocurrencies could provide an avenue for money laundering and other illegal activities saw the country impose a range of curbs, including outlawing deposits into anonymous virtual accounts at banks. Minors, foreigners and financial institutions are also banned from domestic cryptocurrency exchanges.Read more: Why the Cryptocurrency World Is Watching South Korea: QuickTakeCoinnest ranks 57th among global cryptocurrency exchanges, with trading volume of $8.3 million in the last 24 hours, according to Coinmarketcap.com, a digital currency data aggregator.— With assistance by Kyungji Cho

2018-04-06T13:57:13.122Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-06/george-soros-prepares-to-trade-cryptocurrencies-as-prices-plunge
George Soros called cryptocurrencies a bubble in January. Now his $26 billion family office is planning to trade digital assets.Adam Fisher, who oversees macro investing at New York-based Soros Fund Management, got internal approval to trade virtual coins in the last few months, though he has yet to make a wager, according to people familiar with the matter. A spokesman declined to comment.Soros, speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, said digital coins cannot function as actual currencies because of their volatility. But he didn’t predict the hard tumble that some observers had forecast at the time.“As long as you have dictatorships on the rise you will have a different ending, because the rulers in those countries will turn to Bitcoin to build a nest egg abroad,” Soros, 87, said on Jan. 25.Since the billionaire investor made his comments, Bitcoin has fallen 41 percent. The asset’s whipsaw ride over the past six months has caused some investors to doubt the value of trading it. Former hedge fund manager Mike Novogratz shelved plans to launch a crypto fund in December, shifting his efforts to a merchant bank focused on cryptocurrencies and ventures based on related technologies.Read more: Crypto Hedge-Fund Bubble Begins to Deflate as Returns TumbleOther macro managers have turned to digital coins as profits from their hedge funds dwindle. John Burbank, who shuttered his main fund last year, plans to raise $150 million for two funds investing in digital currencies. His Passport Capital started the funds in January and have mostly sought investments from family offices and other wealthy investors.Billionaire Alan Howard made sizable personal wagers -- separate from his firm -- in cryptocurrencies last year and plans to put more of his own money into digital assets and the blockchain technology behind them.Soros has already been indirectly betting on crypto. The firm amassed a stake in Overstock.com in the fourth quarter, making it the third-biggest shareholder of the discount e-commerce company. In August 2017 it became the first major retailer to accept digital currencies. The company had also planned to start an exchange for cryptocurrencies as well as offer digital coins that could trade on the platform.In March, Overstock.com disclosed that the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating its proposed ICO. Shares have sunk about 40 percent in the wake of the disclosure.Investors in digital assets also face the growing possibility of government intervention. Central banks globally are investigating the benefits and risks of cryptocurrencies, while regulators in South Korea, one of the world’s busiest Bitcoin markets, are cracking down on such trading amid allegations of fraud.— With assistance by Katia Porzecanski

2018-04-05T14:12:38.274Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/crypto-rout-driven-by-25-billion-capital-gain-hit-tom-lee-says
Selling pressure in cryptocurrencies could ease after tax day.The mid-April income-tax filing deadline is contributing to crypto’s falling prices as investors who won big betting on the digital tokens sell some of their remaining holdings to pay $25 billion in capital-gains levies, Tom Lee, the head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, wrote in a note Thursday. Bitcoin dropped more than 40 percent over the past month, including a 1.2 percent decline on Thursday to $6,750 as of the New York close.“This is a massive outflow from crypto to dollars,” Lee wrote. “Historical estimates are each $1 of USD outflow is $20-$25 impact on crypto market value.”Tax Filing Advice for Cryptocurrency Investors: A PrimerTom LeeLee says that $25 billion prediction -- derived from his estimate that U.S. households had $92 billion in taxable gains from cryptocurrencies in 2017 -- would represent 20 percent of capital-gains tax receipts to the U.S. Treasury. He estimates total capital gains receipts will hit a record $168 billion for tax-year 2017.A crypto bull who maintains a year-end price target on Bitcoin of $25,000, Lee sees the selling pressure passing.READ: Bitcoin Bull Tom Lee Says HODL On During Slumps for Big Gains“We still like Bitcoin and large-caps,” he said, adding that “while we believe the bear market for alt coins is largely over, we do not see upside for alts until mid-August.”

2018-04-05T14:00:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/crypto-tracing-software-firm-expands-to-cover-more-currencies
Chainalysis Inc., a maker of anti-money-laundering software, is widening the reach of its products that monitor cryptocurrency trading amid heightened demand for secure transactions.The startup, which spent months refining Bitcoin-tracing software, today can begin detecting criminal activity and money laundering in Bitcoin Cash, co-founder Jonathan Levin said in a phone interview. The company plans to support investigations and monitoring of 10 cryptocurrencies by year-end. Customers are interested in tracing Ether, Litecoin, Ripple and Ethereum Classic, among others, he said.“We think about our brand as being the trust provider between the people, the companies and the government in transacting on the blockchain,” Levin said. “Those are critical components to enable billions of people to transact. We want to open up the doors to mainstream adoption.”Investigators used Chainalysis to help track funds when Mt. Gox, a now-defunct Japanese exchange, disclosed in 2014 that Bitcoins valued at hundreds of millions of dollars had gone missing. The company’s software helped bring about at least one arrest, Chief Executive Officer Michael Gronager said.Read more: Criminal underworld dropping Bitcoin for another currencyCryptocurrency transactions have been challenging to track. Coin owners are usually represented by so-called addresses -- a series of dozens of numbers and letters. Each person can have multiple addresses. And some newer cryptocurrencies have extra privacy features that further shield user identities. While Chainalysis doesn’t yet see much demand to monitor privacy-conscious coins like Monero, building such tools is possible, Levin said.Also today, Chainalysis announced a new product that will let exchanges flag high-risk transactions as they happen. The tool can compile customer profiles over time, so one suspicious move could lead to a review of all transactions by a specific user.Chainalysis tools help coin exchanges to comply with regulators’ Know Your Customer requirements. They also make it easier for companies supporting cryptocurrencies to open bank accounts. Chainalysis says it works with firms including Barclays Plc and has reviewed more than $15 billion of transactions.To pay for the expansion -- particularly in its sales force -- Chainalysis said it has raised $16 million in a funding round led by Benchmark.“It felt like if you believed that the cryptocurrency ecosystem is a growing ecosystem, which I do, the need for a tool like Chainalysis is only going to grow,” Sarah Tavel, general partner at Benchmark, said in a phone interview. Tavel said she reached out to Chainalysis after talking with a former law-enforcement official in the Mt. Gox case.Chainalysis, with over 75 employees, has more than tripled its revenue and customers in the past year, Levin said. It competes with companies including London-based Coinfirm.

2018-04-05T15:48:20.387Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/coinlist-raises-9-2-million-in-round-of-funding-as-icos-boom
CoinList, a digital coin sales platform, raised $9.2 million in an initial round of funding, the company said in a statement.Cryptocurrency funds Polychain Capital, Digital Currency Group, FBG Capital, Libertus Capital, Blockchain Capital and CoinFund invested a combined $2 million, while venture fund Accomplice and Protocol Labs put in $7.2 million last year in what’s known as a series A round, according to the statement Thursday.CoinList, which aims to list deeply-vetted ICOs for institutional investors, has processed more than $400 million in cryptocurrency investments, including Filecoin’s $205 million initial coin offering, in the past seven months, the company said.Entrepreneurs have continued to raise billions in ICOs even as cryptocurrency prices slump. Blockchain startups have sold more than $3 billion in digital coins this year, more than half of what they raised in all of 2017, according to CoinDesk data.Bitcoin fell 1.4 percent to $6,734 as of 1:09 p.m. on Thursday.

2018-04-05T13:14:59.956Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/crypto-buyer-identities-said-to-be-sought-by-spain-tax-authority
Spain’s Tax Agency has asked financial firms to turn over names and trading data on cryptocurrency buyers, launching the country’s biggest dragnet yet for potential tax evasion and money laundering using digital coins.Sixty companies were sent requests for trading information, according to an official at the department, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. They include banks and securities firms as well as currency platforms.The drive originated in part from a probe by the National Fraud Investigation Office on bank accounts opened abroad by foreign-exchange shops, according to the official. Spain is trying to crack down on online tax evasion with authorities reportedly increasing demands on Internet-based companies, including Airbnb Inc., to reveal client identities.For a QuickTake on government scrutiny of cryptocurrencies, click hereThe move by Spain’s Tax Agency was earlier reported by El Confidencial website.The global regulatory environment has become more challenging for cryptocurrency speculators, who once thrived in a climate of anonymity and legal ambiguity. Australia this week announced imposed new regulations on digital-currency exchanges.While prices were stable on Thursday, Bitcoin has dropped more than 50 percent this year to $6,741.— With assistance by Eddie van der Walt

2018-04-05T14:22:53.340Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-05/spotify-s-non-ipo-wasn-t-much-of-an-ipo
Spotify.My weird worry about Spotify Technology SA's not-exactly-an-initial-public-offering, which happened on Tuesday, was that no one would sell. And I think I was right?Fewer Spotify Technology SA holders sold shares in the company’s direct listing Tuesday than expected by advisers, potentially contributing to an initial shortage that drove the price up, people familiar with the matter said.Spotify’s stock opened at $165.90 at 12:43 p.m. in New York and climbed as high as $169 a few minutes later. Just 5.6 million shares changed hands at the opening price, or 5 percent of the total number potentially available to trade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 30.5 million shares were traded before the stock closed 10 percent below its opening price at $149.01.As my Bloomberg Gadfly colleague Shira Ovide wrote on Tuesday about those 5.6 million shares:That is an incredibly small 3.1 percent of Spotify's 178 million total outstanding shares. This is an irresponsibly small slice of Spotify to trade out of the gate.There are two dangers with a small float: Share price bumpiness and legitimate questions about the valuation's validity.Now. You can't take that 5.6 million number too seriously. After all, a key feature of Spotify's direct listing was that insiders who wanted to sell didn't have to do so in the first trade. Sure Spotify and its bankers encouraged them to do so, but if you were a private-market investor in Spotify, you'd be perfectly entitled to wait 10 minutes after that opening trade at 12:43 to sell your shares. That opening trade was very close to the highest price of the day (and of the week so far), so if you waited longer you did worse, but there is nothing improbable about that. But my worry was that, while not enough people would want to sell, a lot of people would want to buy Spotify. All of their attention would be focused on the opening of trading, while the people who want to sell can do so any time. If all the buyers were lined up to buy at 12:43 on Tuesday, and all of the sellers are slowly selling off their stock over the course of the week or month or year or whatever, then you would expect a pricing dynamic in which that first trade would go off at a very high price, and then Spotify's stock price would then fall as the supply comes in, with a lot of volatility along the way. I don't think you can reject that description yet.But I may have overestimated how many people wanted to buy:Because the number of Spotify shares eligible for sale is so much higher than in a normal IPO, buyers have been hesitant to jump in for fear of doing so just before a large block of shares comes onto the market, people familiar with Spotify trading said. ...So far, Spotify’s trading activity has lacked the influx of retail investors that would normally be expected to jump into a well-known, newly public company, which has hurt the stock price, people familiar with the listing said.One of the people familiar with the listing said some financial advisers had been wary to push their clients to buy immediately for fear of complications around the direct listing.If the story of Spotify's direct listing is that, on the first day, there weren't that many sellers, but there also weren't that many buyers, and then over time, as people get comfortable with the listing process and as the stock price settles down, more insiders will show up to sell, and more outsiders will show up to buy, then that is ... fine? Like, what are you looking for in this direct listing? There is a temptation to say that the direct listing is a failure if it doesn't end up looking like an IPO, if it results in less trading than an IPO or if that trading is more volatile or if large stable blocks of shares don't immediately move into the hands of long-term committed institutional investors. But why should Spotify care? Being listed, for Spotify, replaces not being listed, and seems like a distinct improvement. In the first two and a half months of 2018, 7.9 million shares of Spotify traded in private markets, at prices ranging from $48.93 to $132.50. In the first two days of being public, 42.2 million shares traded, at prices ranging from $135.51 to $169. Spotify seems pretty clearly to have accomplished the goals of increasing liquidity and reducing volatility for its shareholders. It seems pretty clearly not to have accomplished the goal of replicating an IPO exactly, but that was never actually its goal. Still, if you were worried that Spotify's listing meant the beginning of the end for Wall Street equity underwriting, this might reassure you. If a company wants to do an IPO, Spotify's direct listing does not look like a perfect substitute.Elsewhere, the New York Stock Exchange celebrated Spotify's listing by raising a Swiss flag, possibly because it was confused (Spotify is Swedish), or possibly because it wanted to signal that it is as indifferent to Spotify's listing as Spotify is.Are banks tech companies?What is this Bloomberg Markets story about? The headline is "Wall Street's Big Banks Are Waging an All-Out Technological Arms Race," and part of the thesis is that, especially in equities, banks are no longer in the business of using their balance sheets to profitably intermediate trades for clients, but are instead in the business of providing technology platforms to those clients to do the trades automatically:Constraints brought about by the financial crisis ended the leverage that had fueled the boom. Fixed-income traders felt the brunt of the changes, and in the years since, equities traders —especially those with a technology background—have enjoyed a renaissance. Their rise has touched off a battle for supremacy that’s come down to only three companies: Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and JPMorgan Chase. These rivals are now locked in a technological arms race to control a $58 billion-a-year industry. But you could read against the grain of that story. "With the upgraded electronic system and revamped prime brokerage," begins one paragraph, and ... prime brokerage isn't a tech thing? Prime brokerage is, basically, we will lend you money so you can buy stocks, and we will lend you stocks so you can short them. And then:Morgan Stanley hugged its quant clients close. Instead of merely offering to execute trades, prime brokerage provides all-important leverage and custody of assets. “Prime brokerage is really the lifeblood,” says ETL co-founder Michael Botlo. “This is the oxygen. This is what you’re immersed in. If all of a sudden prime brokerage becomes terrible, then you’re toast. If you can’t short anymore, you’re dead. If you can’t access your swaps, you’re dead.”If you focus on the technological arms race, it might seem a bit odd that the only contestants are Goldman, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan. Sure they all talk a good game about being tech companies, but, you know, there are actual tech companies in the world. Google or Amazon could presumably build trading algorithms, if they put their minds to it. Plenty of smart technologists, from banks and not, have gone off on their own to build trading platforms that will disrupt the banks and align with clients' interests and revolutionize trading and so forth. U.S. equities are about as electronic and open and all-to-all as financial products get; if you are going to disrupt the banks, this is the place to do it, and in fact the history of high-frequency trading is pretty much one of scrappy high-tech upstarts disrupting the big slow banks in stock trading.If you focus on the prime brokerage, though, of course the race is among the three big banks. Quant funds want tech-y things, sure; they want low latency and fancy execution algorithms and so forth. Lots of tech-y companies can do that sort of thing. But they also want money, balance sheet, leverage and stock-borrow access. That's not a tech business at all. That's a banking business. This is a frequent lesson in fintech. A tech person looks at a thing that banks do and says: "I could do that better. I am smarter and faster than a bank, and more trustworthy, and I do not have the legacy issues that the bank has." And then she builds an amazing product, and goes out and pitches it to clients, and learns that an amazing product is not what the clients want. The clients want access to the banks' network of customers, or to the banks' corporate clients and new issues, or just to the banks' money. Banks may be working to get an edge over each other through technology, but their edge over technology companies comes from something else.Bureaucracy.I left investment banking almost seven years ago now, and while I rarely miss it, this passage occasioned a certain nostalgia:Someone recently told Jamie Dimon during a JPMorgan Chase & Co. leadership gathering that bureaucracy is a necessity in a complex company.“This is hogwash,” Dimon told shareholders in a letter on Thursday, recalling the exchange. “Bureaucracy is a disease. Bureaucracy drives out good people, slows down decision making, kills innovation and is often the petri dish of bad politics.”The head of the largest U.S. bank said he’s going to war on bureaucracy across the firm. There are even “war rooms,” set up by its operating committee last year to find ways to streamline certain tasks, such as signing up new clients and managing vendors.Oh man. Imagine that operating committee meeting:Committee Member 1: We need to reduce bureaucracy. But how?Committee Member 2: We could set up a series of committees on reducing bureaucracy.Committee Member 1: You do see the irony there right?Committee Member 2: Well we could call them "war rooms."Committee Member 1: Oh "war rooms" that's totally different, war rooms are good.Is bureaucracy necessary in a complex company? Yes, probably, but at least at a bank you can default to swaggery names for your bureaucracy. Never make a list when you can make a dashboard. Never have a Committee to Reduce Committees when you can have a War Room to Reduce Committees.Or there is this, from Dimon's shareholder letter in the annual report: Internal meetings can be a giant waste of time and money. I am a vocal proponent of having fewer of them. If a meeting is absolutely necessary, the organizer needs to have a well-planned, focused agenda with pre-read materials sent in advance. The right people have to be in the room, and follow-up actions must be well-documented. So, one: Sure. But, two: If you are opposed to bureaucracy and red tape, sending around reading materials before every meeting, and follow-up checklists after, is ... kind of a mixed bag? In a truly informal fast-moving company, the person who wants the thing would just go chat with the person who does the thing, and they'd agree on how to do the thing, and then do it. There wouldn't be the flurry of calendar invites and pre-reading materials and room scheduling and post-meeting checklists that you get in, you know, a bureaucracy. The pre-reading absolutely is useful in a big company with a lot of meetings where efficient informal communication is difficult. But that's ... that's just another way of saying that bureaucracy is a necessity in a complex company.Also the necessity-of-bureaucracy comment that someone made to Dimon? That was at a "senior leadership offsite." I hope it was an offsite about having fewer meetings!  Elsewhere in that letter: "Dimon Sees Growth Opportunities All Over, 'Even in Fixed Income.'"The crypto.Here is a delightful story about how Ripple is trying to get its cryptocurrency, XRP, listed on the big U.S. cryptocurrency exchanges, and is getting turned down, even though it has offered money for a listing:Last year, a Ripple executive asked whether a $1 million cash payment could persuade Gemini to list XRP in the third quarter, according to people familiar with the matter. That followed other attempts by Ripple to get Gemini to add XRP, exploring strategies like paying out rebates and covering related costs, the people said.During preliminary talks with Coinbase last fall, Ripple said it would be willing to lend the exchange more than $100 million worth of XRP to start letting users trade the asset, according to a person privy to that discussion. Ripple, without putting the proposal in writing, told Coinbase it could pay back the loan in XRP or dollars, the person said. If the exchange had chosen the latter, it could have profited had the tokens become more valuable upon being listed, the person said.The exchanges' objection appears to be that, if an exchange lists a cryptocurrency that the Securities and Exchange Commission decides is a security, then they will be in big trouble.Is Ripple's token a security? Who knows! It seems likely that the SEC is not going to treat Bitcoin or Ether as securities, whether or not that analysis is correct, so the U.S. exchanges are comfortable listing those. (Coinbase also lists Litecoin and Bitcoin Cash, which I guess are close enough to Bitcoin to be fine.) Otherwise ... who knows, but the current SEC seems to start from the assumption that every cryptocurrency is a security until proven otherwise, so you can see why the exchanges would be nervous.But Ripple is kind of an odd situation. Usually, when a company issues a token, it is pretty clear to everyone that the token is a speculative investment in the company's business project: If the company's product or network or whatever takes off, then the token you use in it will be worth a lot of money, and so the token is a bet on the company's success. That sounds like the definition of a security.But the fortunes of XRP are curiously unconnected to the fortunes of Ripple the company. I mean, not quite: Ripple owns a ton of XRP and will be very rich to the extent that XRP is worth a lot, and it has sold XRP to fund its work. But Ripple's actual business -- of building blockchain-y payment infrastructure for banks -- so far doesn't seem to involve much XRP:The problem is that banks say they have no interest in using XRP. Current and former executives at seven global banks—some of whom have partnered with Ripple—say there was scant chance they would ever entrust their corporate clients’ payments to a cryptocurrency. ...Chief Executive Officer Brad Garlinghouse says Ripple is working with more than 100 banks to overhaul the way they handle payments for their clients. “Ripple is trying to be a catalyst to mature a whole industry,” he says. “The current system is fraught with friction and is measured by a lack of transparency and speed.” There’s a difference, however, between Ripple, the company, and XRP, the token. XRP is “absolutely at the core of what Ripple is doing,” says Garlinghouse, but at the moment the company’s main product, RippleNet, doesn’t rely on it.So if you think that Ripple's business of building payment infrastructure for banks will be a success, and that its network will become dominant, then it's still not clear that you should buy XRP to express that view.But if XRP is just sort of its own weird thing, and not an investment in the enterprise of Ripple that can expect profits from the efforts of Ripple's management, then perhaps it is not a security?Elsewhere, here is another delightful story about over-the-counter cryptocurrency trading markets. A big selling point of cryptocurrency is that I can just transfer Bitcoins or whatever to you "on the blockchain," with no third-party intermediary: The blockchain registers the transfer the coins, and we don't need to rely on a bank any more than we would if I were handing you a $10 bill. But in practice that doesn't happen too much: Sure I might want to sell Bitcoins, and you might want to buy them, but how will we find each other? And even if we do find each other, how can I trust that you'll send me dollars for my Bitcoins, and how can you trust that I'll send you Bitcoins for your dollars?And so Bitcoin exchanges have sprung up, where people use a central trusted third-party intermediary to hold on to their dollars and Bitcoins for them, and the exchanges keep getting hacked or stealing all the Bitcoins. But the OTC market is a competitor to that: Instead of trusting exchanges to hold your Bitcoins, you can hold them yourself, and when you want to sell them, you can call up an OTC trading desk which will go out and find (and vouch for) someone who will buy them. Once again, crypto-finance is discovering that some of what regular finance does is actually useful.The SEC warns of SEC impersonators.Well:The Securities and Exchange Commission today issued an Investor Alert warning investors of fraudsters claiming to be SEC employees in an attempt to trick investors into sending money or revealing sensitive account information.  The alert makes clear that the SEC does not contact investors to confirm trades, set up trading accounts, or record the details of trades. The alert also notes that federal government agencies, including the SEC, do not endorse or sponsor any particular securities, issuers, products, services, professional credentials, firms, or individuals.I don't know. If I were a scammer I'd mock up some SEC-looking letterhead and put out my own Investor Alert saying "the SEC regularly contacts investors to confirm trades, and anyone who tells you otherwise is an impostor." If you're the sort of person who was going to fall for this stuff in the first place, what are the odds you are also the sort of person who carefully reads and checks the validity of SEC Investor Alerts?Things happen.How Southern California Became Home to Bond Kings. Top UBS Banker Has ‘Very Aggressive Plan for U.S.’ Hard Questions: Q&A with Mark Zuckerberg on Protecting People’s Information. 38 Questions for Mark Zuckerberg. Facebook Says Data on Most of Its 2 Billion Users Is Vulnerable. The Case for a Zuck-Free Facebook. China’s Anbang Insurance Gets $9.7 Billion Capital Injection From Rescue Fund. Elliott Management Reveals Over $1 Billion Stake in Hyundai, Seeks Clearer Road Map. NYSE Parent Company Agrees to Purchase Chicago Stock Exchange. Morgan Stanley Fires Broker With History of Abuse Claims. M.B.A. Students Compete for Cash in Rapid-Pitch Contests. It's gonna snow again. Why These Bumblebees Are Wearing Itty-Bitty QR Codes. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-05T21:21:20.052Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jfn10knc
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTrump calls for additional trade tariffs against China, while India’s central bank explores the possibility of creating its own digital currency. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.President Donald Trump has ordered U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to consider $100 billion in additional trade tariffs against China. Earlier, Trump called Chinese President Xi Jinping a “friend” but said it’s time to stop China from “taking advantage” of America. Meanwhile, China has signaled that U.S. shale fields may follow the nation’s farms as a target if a trade war escalates. Trump also said that the European Union is solidly against the U.S. on trade. That came, of course, after the EU and Japan asked to join the U.S.’s World Trade Organization case over China’s alleged discriminatory technology licensing. (The EU and Japan said they had a “substantial trade interest” in the dispute proceeding.)U.S. nonfarm payrolls may have grown by 185,000 in March, compared with a 313,000 gain in February, according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg ahead of the report, which is set to be released on Friday. The unemployment rate is expected to drop 0.1 percentage point to 4.0 percent, while average hourly earnings are seen rising 0.3 percent month-over-month versus a prior 0.1 percent. That's after a report Thursday showed the trade deficit widened for a sixth month and the share of small businesses raising pay hit a 17-year high. Meanwhile, Treasuries are back in selloff mode, and some investors who remained bearish even in the face of trade-war angst and tumbling stocks say Friday’s jobs report may propel yields higher still.India’s central bank is exploring the creation of a digital currency even as it escalates a crackdown on existing instruments such as bitcoin. The Reserve Bank of India has set up a panel to study the desirability and feasibility of introducing a virtual currency, and the group will submit its report by the end of June. However, it also said it is banning banks and other regulated entities from providing services to users, holders and traders of cryptocurrencies. Also, the RBI painted a picture of a “Goldilocks” economy and lowered inflation projections.Asian dollar bonds handed investors the worst first-quarter returns in two decades in 2018, as rising short-term interest rates cause some investors to unwind bets. Dollar-denominated notes in Asia ex-Japan lost 1.3 percent in the three months through March 31, according to an ICE BofAML index, the biggest decline for the gauge since its inception in late 1996. The three-month London interbank offered rate reached 2.33 percent this week, following a 62-basis point advance in the first quarter.Investors in the Asian day will be keen to see if Japanese wage growth slowed again in February as economists estimate it did, and whether Hong Kong's PMI can climb even higher. LG Electronics reports earnings, while former South Korean President Park Geun-hye faces her first court ruling as prosecutors seek a 30-year sentence in a corruption scandal. The European day brings German industrial production numbers and French trade data. This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Andrew Mayeda, Kevin Cirilli, Jeanette Rodrigues, Lianting Tu, and David Yong

2018-04-05T21:30:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/coinbase-launching-venture-arm-to-invest-in-crypto-startups
Coinbase Inc. has capital, and it’s ready to spend it.The best-known U.S. cryptocurrency exchange is forming Coinbase Ventures, a team that will focus on providing funding to crypto and fintech startups as the San Francisco-based company looks to nurture the development of new products and services.“We’re not wedded to any verticals,” Emilie Choi, Coinbase’s vice president of corporate and business development, said in an interview. “We’re going to try to identify pockets of interesting opportunity early on in the life cycle -- we’re talking literally at seed stage -- and see how they blossom.”Coinbase is interested in areas including decentralized exchanges, which seek to give investors more control over their funds, and “stablecoins,” or less-volatile cryptocurrencies, she said. The company, which helps investors buy and sell Bitcoin and other major virtual currencies, expects individual investments to be in the $100,000 to $200,000 range, said Choi, adding that the firm doesn’t plan be a major holder in any of the companies in the near term.Read more about decentralized exchanges“You may also see us invest in companies that ostensibly look competitive with Coinbase,” the company said in a statement Thursday. “There may be nuance to the way these startups are building out their products.”Coinbase could eventually buy another crypto exchange, said Choi, who’s also in charge of mergers and acquisitions. She joined the company in March from LinkedIn Corp., where she oversaw more than 40 deals. Coinbase is considering transactions including large strategic acquisitions and deals related to traditional financial services and asset custody, she said.“Please note that we are not offering favored asset status to any companies we’ll invest in,” Coinbase said in the statement. “Also, for the time being, our Ventures efforts will not be focused on security tokens.”The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said platforms serving as trading venues for digital assets deemed to be securities will need to register with the agency as a national exchange, or qualify for an exemption. Coinbase isn’t federally licensed with the SEC or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the most vocal financial watchdogs on cryptocurrencies, but instead is regulated by numerous states through a patchwork system.Choi said there will be a “church-and-state separation” between any token companies Coinbase invests in and the coins it lists on its marketplace.The firm may also invest in companies started by former employees, it said in the statement. Notable alumni include Charlie Lee, who created Litecoin, and Olaf Carlson-Wee, who founded crypto hedge fund Polychain Capital.

2018-04-05T19:55:16.900Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/your-evening-briefing
Want to receive this post in your inbox every afternoon? Sign up here.A breach at Delta may have exposed the payment information of hundreds of thousands of customers. And a cyberattack that crippled at least four U.S. gas pipelines is now hitting the utility industry. Investors worried about Facebook's data security, however, might not need to worry—some on Wall Street think the worst is over for its stock. —Katie RobertsonSheryl Sandberg says “a few” Facebook advertisers have paused spending. Facebook’s Chief Operating Officer told Bloomberg that some advertisers were waiting for the company to answer questions on user privacy before they resume spending, and that Facebook is drawing stricter boundaries around its work with certain advertisers and political campaigns. The company makes almost all its revenue and profit from advertising.No trader is safe. Wall Street’s big banks are in an all-out technological arms race to control the $58 billion-a-year equities industry. And the twin forces that have always shaped markets, technology and regulation, are about to wreak havoc once more.Bill Ackman is seeing an investor exodus over dismal returns. About two-thirds of the capital investors could withdraw from Pershing Square's private funds was redeemed at the end of last year. JPMorgan no longer recommends the funds, and Blackstone has been pulling its money.The crypto selloff could ease after tax day, according to crypto bull Tom Lee. He says the rout that saw Bitcoin drop more than 40 percent in the past month has been driven by investors selling some of their wins to pay $25 billion in capital-gains levies.Trump says he backs his embattled EPA chief. The president said Thursday he still had confidence in Scott Pruitt, who has been the subject of a cascade of ethics questions in recent days. A new memo obtained by Bloomberg seems to contradict Pruitt’s claim that a government review last week cleared him of ethical issues tied to a $50-a-night condo rental.Feeding Fido fake meat could save the planet. Pet food represents as much as 30 percent of all meat consumption in America. A startup wants to transform the industry with vegan kibble straight from the lab to address the millions of tons of greenhouse gases that pets release.How one man got rich selling machine guns. Frank Goepfert has built a lucrative business dealing in the rarest and deadliest of firearms. The red tape that makes machine guns so difficult to buy has also helped them become the ultimate collector’s item, with some having doubled in value over the past decade. 

2018-04-02T14:23:18.818Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-02/spotify-may-replace-its-shareholders-quickly
Happy Spotify Week!My weird worry about Spotify Technology SA's not-exactly-an-initial-public-offering, which is scheduled to occur tomorrow, was that no one would sell. In a normal IPO, the pre-IPO shareholders -- founders, employees, venture capitalists -- typically agree to sell a pre-set, pre-disclosed number of shares in the IPO itself. But any shares that they don't sell right then are normally locked up for three to six months; they can only sell them after the company has been trading for a while and issued a quarterly report and generally settled into being a public company. Given that restriction, it makes sense for investors to take some risk off the table by selling at least a portion of their stock in the IPO.But if you are a current Spotify investor, what's the rush? There is no IPO: You can sell tomorrow in the opening auction on the New York Stock Exchange, but there's been no roadshow or book-building process to drum up interest and come to an opening price. And there's no lockup: If you don't sell in tomorrow's opening auction, you can sell 10 minutes later, or on Wednesday, or in a week, or whenever. Why not wait to see what the price will do? (And if you sell right at the opening, doesn't that suggest that you expect the price only to go down?) This, it seemed to me, could have wild results. A lot of people want to buy Spotify as soon as possible: There are plenty of public investors who want it in their portfolio, for fundamental or hype-related or quasi-index-y reasons. But if the supply doesn't come to meet them immediately -- if a lot of current Spotify investors wait 10 minutes or 10 days to sell -- then Spotify could have a ton of demand and a very limited float, and a stock price that is high and volatile, until the supply finally comes out and things settle down.Apparently I was wrong:It is unclear how many shares could trade on the first day. As much as 91% of Spotify’s 178 million shares will be eligible for trading, but people close to the deal said they expect the actual float to be closer to two-thirds of the shares, and for co-founders Mr. Ek and Martin Lorentzon to hold on to their stakes in the company, at least initially.Still, Spotify’s anticipated float is dramatically higher than the average IPO. Since 1995, U.S.-listed companies have sold roughly 35% of their shares on average in IPOs and U.S.-listed technology companies have sold 27%, according to Dealogic.I mean, I still have no idea; "eligible for trading" doesn't mean "actually sold." But if two-thirds of the shares actually come loose on the first day then my concerns will obviously have been misplaced, and whatever weird stuff happens with Spotify will have nothing to do with a lot of sudden demand meeting a small trickle of supply.But if 60 or 70 or 91 percent of Spotify's shares change hands on the first day, that's a little weird too. People sometimes say that the shareholders are the owners of a corporation. Spotify might, tomorrow, all at once, change out most of its owners. (Keeping around only a few -- like the founder-executives who run the company on behalf of the other owners.) Unlike in a typical IPO, Spotify's managers won't get to know the big new investors during a long series of roadshow meetings, and they won't pick which new investors to allocate shares to. There'll be no fanfare; indeed, there'll be a pointed absence of fanfare. ("Its executives declined to come to the NYSE Tuesday to participate in the usual rituals of an IPO, such as ringing the opening bell.") Spotify's managers seem totally indifferent -- let's anthropomorphize a bit and say "Spotify seems totally indifferent" -- to who its owners are.We talk sometimes about the balance of power between entrepreneurs and suppliers of capital. One way -- one quite traditional way -- to think about the public corporation is that it is a thing owned by shareholders, who hire managers to manage it for them. Another perfectly plausible way to think about it is that it is a thing created and essentially owned by founder-managers, who hire shareholders to supply some money to them. Spotify's founder-managers have extra voting rights and can't be bothered to pretend to get excited to go public. They are treating the whole concept of having shareholders with indifference. On the traditional theory of shareholder primacy, that is a little surprising. But it may more accurately reflect how companies -- at least, how hot tech unicorns -- actually work now.Happy April Fools' Day!If you are the chief executive officer of a public company, can you make false statements about your company's financial position in public written comments? Sure, I guess is the answer? At least on April 1? I dunno, why not. This is not legal advice. I guess Elon Musk does not concern himself unduly with legal advice:After the worst month for Tesla Inc. shares in more than seven years, punctuated by company blog posts about the death of a Model X driver, Elon Musk is joking about his electric-car maker going bankrupt.“Despite intense efforts to raise money, including a last-ditch mass sale of Easter Eggs, we are sad to report that Tesla has gone completely and totally bankrupt,” the chief executive officer wrote in an April Fools’ Day tweet on Sunday. Another post included a photo of Musk and a message that he “was found passed out against a Tesla Model 3, surrounded by ‘Teslaquilla’ bottles, the tracks of dried tears still visible on his cheeks.”In his defense, April Fools' Day fell on a Sunday this year so no one traded on his tweets. But I guess you still can today. I have not seen Musk tweeting -- or Tesla putting out an 8-K saying -- that it was just a joke. That would sort of spoil the joke. The real defense is of course that if you are a sensible person you know to ignore Musk's tweets because (1) it is April Fools' Day, (2) it is Elon Musk, and (3) it reads like a joke. (Also: Tesla has done stock-moving April Fools' jokes before, and on weekdays.) This is more or less a materiality defense: No reasonable person could consider Musk's tweets relevant to her decision to invest in Tesla securities.But this is a defense that is not limited to things that are, strictly speaking, jokes. We have talked a lot about Jesse Litvak, the former Jefferies LLC mortgage-bond trader who was sent to prison for lying to customers about the prices he paid for bonds. Part of his defense was that everyone knows that bond traders and salespeople lie about the prices they paid for bonds, and that "such statements from sell‐side sales representatives or traders are generally biased, often misleading, and unworthy of consideration in trading decisions." I once wrote: "This is the sense in which 'everybody's doing it' really is a defense against fraud charges. To be fraud, lies have to be material, and if lies are so common that they are ignored, then they can't really be material." The extent to which that applies to bond trading is unclear; Litvak is in prison, after all. But it obviously applies on April Fools' Day. If everyone is saying nonsense about their companies, then there's no excuse for taking any of it seriously.Oh elsewhere there's a lot of actual bad Tesla news! "Tesla Inc. confirmed the Model X driver who died in a gruesome crash a week ago was using Autopilot and defended the safety record of its driver-assistance system that’s back under scrutiny following a fatality." And: "With pressure escalating during one of the worst weeks in its almost 15-year-history, Tesla Inc. raced to manufacture and deliver as many Model 3 sedans as it could to report to rattled investors. The carmaker still probably came up short." Maybe they'd be less rattled without the bankruptcy jokes?Defunct Chinese bonds.On the other hand, do you expect your pastor to lie to you? Well: Do you expect your pastor to lie to you about a securities offering? Probably not, no, is my guess, which means that if "the pastor of one of the largest Protestant churches in the country" allegedly runs "a scheme to defraud elderly investors by selling them interests in defunct, pre-Revolutionary Chinese bonds," then the Securities and Exchange Commission is going to take an interest:The SEC's complaint alleges that, in 2013 and 2014, Kirbyjon Caldwell, Senior Pastor at Windsor Village United Methodist Church in Houston, and Gregory Alan Smith, a self-described financial planner who the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has barred from the broker-dealer business since 2010,targeted vulnerable and elderly investors with false assurances that the bonds—collectible memorabilia with no meaningful investment value—were worth millions of dollars.  Caldwell and Smith raised at least $3.4 million from 29 mostly elderly investors, some of whom liquidated their annuities to invest in this scheme.I don't think we've talked about pre-Revolutionary Chinese bonds around here but they're a classic, right up there with "prime bank" schemes in the annals of great and endlessly recurring financial frauds. ("These bonds have been in default since 1939 and the current Chinese government refuses to recognize the debt," notes the SEC complaint.) Why do these schemes keep coming up, if they are widely known to be frauds? I tend to think the answer is that they have a certain magico-religious appeal, that they add to the enchantment of the world, that humans have a deep desire to believe in something bigger than themselves, to find some scheme that makes sense of an indifferent-seeming universe and that, ideally, gives them a central place in that scheme. Believing that there is some secret financial system where "prime banks" pay huge risk-free returns, or where defaulted Chinese bonds will finally pay off -- and that you are among the chosen few who can take advantage of this opportunity -- is emotionally and spiritually satisfying, until you lose all your money. It probably helps if a pastor pitches it.I also appreciated this, from the SEC complaint:Throughout 2014, Caldwell and Smith continued to send emails and texts promising investors that they would be paid. These lulling emails usually provided elaborate explanations for why Caldwell had been unable to sell the bonds. Excuses ranged from issues pertaining to international currency exchanges to failures of international organizations like the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank to approve the redemptions. Although these excuses sounded plausible to some investors, they had no basis in fact.I don't know if "lulling emails" is a technical securities-law term but it ought to be.Congrats, Barclays.It has now been more than 10 years since the collapse of Bear Stearns, and I think we are now going to move on from worrying about the mis-selling of mortgage bonds before 2008. Everyone is tired of it: "Barclays Plc agreed to pay $2 billion to settle a probe into how it sold the sort of mortgage bonds that fueled the financial crisis, securing a penalty less than half of what U.S. authorities originally demanded." Sure, fine, blah, enough. People keep worrying that no one has learned any lessons from 2008, and that we're rapidly heading back to the same regulatory environment that led to the crisis, but I have to say that 10 years ago it would have been essentially unheard-of for a big bank to pay a $2 billion fine, and it would have been even weirder for everyone to agree that that was good for the bank:“The settlement came at the bottom end of expectations and much sooner than expected,” said Ian Gordon, an analyst at Investec Plc, who called it a “clear positive” and a “very happy Easter” for the bank. Salad blockchain.There was a time -- a simpler time, a happier time -- when Money Stuff was almost never about cryptocurrency and blockchain. How did we occupy ourselves? Well, we talked a lot about bowls. The Rise of the Bowl was pretty much the theme of Money Stuff back in 2016. Just, literal bowls. Like the kind you eat salad out of. "Plates inhibit you because food slides off," someone told the Wall Street Journal. "Even if I had the option to eat off a plate, I would eat out of a bowl," someone told the New York Post. Bowls had a moment, in 2016, and we observed it. Anyway in 2018 Money Stuff is about blockchain, but sometimes the blockchain is also about bowls:A bowl of Chicken Pesto Parm represents more than just a new dish on the Sweetgreen menu. That warm salad of roasted chicken, organic spinach, quinoa, spicy broccoli, and Middle Eastern spiced za’atar bread crumbs, with pesto vinaigrette and hot sauce, represents 3,000 hours of research and work with more than 150 farmers across the country to explore new ingredients. ...Adds co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Neman: “We were the first to use blockchain as an application for food. We were one of the first in the category to release an app [in 2013]. We designed this new menu for flavor, and the analytics from our app allows us to find out what people are craving.” Look I don't know how the blockchain for salad works either, that is not the point here, the point here is that there is a blockchain for salad.Elsewhere the blockchain might be illegal in Europe:Under the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, companies will be required to completely erase the personal data of any citizen who requests that they do so. For businesses that use blockchain, specifically applications with publicly available data trails such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, truly purging that information could be impossible. “Some blockchains, as currently designed, are incompatible with the GDPR,” says Michèle Finck, a lecturer in EU law at the University of Oxford. EU regulators, she says, will need to decide whether the technology must be barred from the region or reconfigure the new rules to permit an uneasy coexistence.I take no position on whether EU regulators should ban the blockchain but they should definitely consider a ban on talking about the blockchain.The crypto.There is a species of economic reasoning that thinks that a currency managed by a central bank is too unpredictable and discretionary, and should be replaced by some sort of mechanical rule for the money supply, like a Taylor Rule or the gold standard. This sort of thing is a particular specialty of the Wall Street Journal opinion pages, and last week they published this version by Max Raskin, arguing for the replacement of central banks not by a rules-based approach or the gold standard but by Bitcoin: Countries interested in adopting a passive monetary policy could use bitcoin as a model. Such a policy would have some of the benefits of passive investing. Index funds save investors from the significant management fees active funds charge. The Fed and other central banks have their own fees, known as budgets. More significant is the macroeconomic cost of uncertainty. Businesses delay investment, and long-term planning becomes more difficult, with unknowns from the government.Ah yes the notorious uncertainty of central banking could be replaced by the smooth stability of Bitcoin. What could possibly ... hmm ... wait ... it says here that Bitcoin has had more than 100 percent inflation so far in 2018? Sort of a rough performance but I guess steady predictable inflation is ... oh wait last year Bitcoin had more than 90 percent deflation? If your view of Bitcoin is that it shows how a currency could be administered by mechanical rules without a central bank, you really ought to reckon with the fact that Bitcoin is a terrible currency. I mean, it has other appeals -- as a store of value, an international transfer mechanism, etc. -- but as a way to buy a sandwich it is notably useless. I am not sure why you'd want to use it as a model for your monetary policy.Meanwhile there is that proverb about selling shovels at a gold rush, but the modern version is probably that you should sell Lamborghinis at a crypto rush:The luxury automobile maker delivered a record 3,815 vehicles to customers in 2017. It was the seventh consecutive year of sales growth, according to Lamborghini.A general manager at Lamborghini Newport Beach in Costa Mesa, California, told CNBC that the dealership had "over 10 transactions" involving cryptocurrency in December, when bitcoin reached $19,000 per coin.Hedge funds.I don't know, I'm not all that impressed by this:Italian financier Leonardo Marroni runs a $115 million hedge fund from the spare room downstairs in a house in the leafy London suburb of Wimbledon.The space is Devet Capital’s trading floor, conference room and occasional bedroom for six former stray dogs, where the firm operates on an annual budget of up to about £66,000 ($98,000). That amount would barely cover the costs of most hedge funds’ software systems.The "hedge fund" category is broad, and there's a lot of money in the world, and I'm sure someone somewhere is running $100 million with no expenses other than a subscription to a tabloid that prints horoscopes. If you run a billion dollars out of your house with no budget, then that is noteworthy. But $100 million, meh. Still I like the sound of some of Devet's initiatives, like having its trader-analysts also do investor relations and trade reconciliation ("so many activities are overrated," says its co-founder), and the thing about the dogs. Really every hedge-fund trading floor should double as a bedroom for stray dogs.Things happen.Saks, Lord & Taylor Hit With Data Breach. Einhorn's Main Hedge Fund Down 14% This Year After March Drop. Wall Street experiments with marijuana investments. The Danger Lurking in a Safe Corner of the Bond Market. The endless SMR. Dealpolitik: Zuckerberg’s Grip on Facebook Could Put Directors in a Tricky Position. How to Think About Corporate Tax Cuts. Over 1,300 robots dance together to break Guinness World Record.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-05T20:30:12.225Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-05/the-daily-prophet-short-squeezes-are-the-worst-kind-of-rallies-jfmz6tog
U.S. stocks just capped their first three-day rally since the start of March, with the S&P 500 Index surging 3.14 percent over the period. Clearly, investors have moved on from any concerns they may have had about a full-blown trade war breaking out between the U.S. and China. Or have they?Rather than any newfound confidence in the ability of the Trump administration to negotiate a bilateral agreement that benefits both parties, there's strong evidence the rally has a lot to do with investors being forced out of bearish bets -- otherwise known as a short squeeze -- after the S&P 500 began rallying from its lowest since Feb. 8 on Monday. The latest data show that short interest in U.S. stocks surged in the first half of March by the most since 2015, reaching a four-month high. Of course, efforts by the Trump administration to downplay the $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods, saying they may never go into effect and are little more than a negotiating ploy, have helped bolster investors sentiment. But the thing about so-called short squeezes, which happen when asset prices quickly move higher and force those with bearish bets to exit those trades, pushing prices even higher, is that have little to do with sentiment. Plus, they allow bears to reset their positions at more favorable levels.Here's more evidence that maybe the rally is on shaky ground: Bloomberg News macro strategist Cameron Crise reported earlier Thursday that the worst 30 S&P 500 stocks over the past year were up 1.17 percentage points on average, more than the index as a whole. “After the initial introduction of trade tensions and the back and forth between the U.S. and China and consternation around Nafta, I think the markets are now beginning to see through the bluster of negotiations and they’re dialing back some of their most significant fears of a full on trade war,” Kevin Caron, a senior portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, told Bloomberg News.'CALMER HEADS'Agricultural commodity prices rebounded Thursday to erase much -- and in some cases all -- of the steep losses seen a day earlier when markets were spooked by China’s plans to levy tariffs on U.S. supplies of soybeans, corn and cotton, according to Bloomberg News' Shruti Date Singh. Cotton for May delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in New York wiped away Wednesday’s loss and was on track for the biggest gain in a month. May soybean futures, which at one stage yesterday were down 5.3 percent, made up almost all the lost ground. Corn and wheat also rallied. The initial news caused a somewhat “knee-jerk” reaction, Joe Vaclavik, president of Standard Grain in Chicago, told Bloomberg News. Subsequently, White House officials ease their stance on trade, indicating the tariffs may never be implemented. “Calmer heads prevailed,” Arlan Suderman, chief commodities economist for INTL FCStone, said in a telephone interview. The market is now refocusing on other news, such as the “strong” U.S. soybean export sales reported by the Department of Agriculture, and the drought and cold weather in the U.S. Plains that may hinder development of wheat, Suderman said. The earlier drop in prices also offered a buying opportunity for users of agricultural commodities, he added.LIBOR STRIKES AGAINWhen it comes to the U.S.'s major foreign creditors, China and its $1.17 trillion portfolio of Treasuries dominates the discussion. Although it doesn't get talked about as much, just as important is Japan and its $1.07 trillion of U.S. debt. That's what makes new data from the Bank of Japan so concerning. The data show foreign securities, mostly bonds with some stocks, held by the country's regional lender shrank more than 9 percent in February to 9.5 trillion yen ($89 billion), the lowest since November 2014, according to Bloomberg News' Chikako Mogi and Takako Taniguchi. The holdings of larger banks dropped 4 percent. The decline seems in large part a result of the surge in the London interbank offered rate. As the benchmark for U.S. borrowing costs climbs, it becomes more expensive to hedge dollar-denominated investments back into yen. The higher hedging costs, a re-ignition of bullish sentiment toward the yen and increased scrutiny from the Financial Services Agency have prompted a reassessment, according to three money managers at the lenders who asked not to be identified in discussing investment strategies. Treasury Department data show that Japan's holdings of U.S. government debt fell by $29.2 billion last year, while China's increased $126.5 billion.BITCOIN BLUESNot even cryptocurrencies, long the favored means of commerce among criminals and others who wish to remain in the shadows, can escape the tax man. Cryptos have been under sever pressure this year, with Bitcoin dropping below $7,000 this week and losing about half its value. While there are all sort of explanations for the weakness, Fundstrat Global Advisors Head of Research Tom Lee believes that a portion of the declines are tied to the April 15 income-tax filing deadline. That's because investors who won big betting on the digital tokens have been selling some of their holdings to pay $25 billion in capital-gains levies, according to Bloomberg News' Joanna Ossinger, citing a research note from Lee. “This is a massive outflow from crypto to dollars,” Lee wrote. “Historical estimates are each $1 of USD outflow is $20-$25 impact on crypto market value," Lee wrote. That $25 billion prediction is derived from his estimate that U.S. households had $92 billion in taxable gains from cryptocurrencies in 2017. Lee, who estimates total capital gains receipts will hit a record $168 billion for tax-year 2017, has a year-end price target of $25,000 for Bitcoin.TURKEY COOKEDThe outlook for Turkey is getting bleaker, if the performance of the lira is any guide. The currency has weakened about 16 percent since early September as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan tightened his grip on power by purging the government of any dissenting voices. And on Thursday, a report in the Hurriyet newspaper that Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek may have resigned sent the lira tumbling more than 1 percent to a new record low of 4.05 to the dollar. Simsek later said via Twitter that he would continue serving the nation “until our last breath.” The former Merrill Lynch strategist is known for his defense of orthodox economic views and is often considered a counterweight against Erdogan’s drive for lower interest rates, according to Bloomberg News' Constantine Courcoulas. When Erdogan came to power in 2014, it took less than 2.25 liras to buy one dollar, but the currency has been under pressure from a ballooning current-account deficit and double-digit inflation. Erdogan, who’s seeking to formalize effective one-man rule at an election next year, is letting the economy run hot, and investors worry that monetary policy is not tight enough to anchor the nation’s assets.TEA LEAVESThe median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for the Labor Department to say Friday that the economy added a healthy 185,000 jobs in March. But that's not all you need to know. The so-called whisper number is for a gain of 208,000 jobs last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. And yet, the strategist at BMO Capital Markets wrote in a research note Thursday that the anecdotal evidence leading up to the report is skewed slightly negatively, with five positive proxies and seven negative ones. The positive indicators include the ADP report, the tendency for the unemployment rate to beat estimates in April and an improvement in ISM non-manufacturing employment index. The negatives, they wrote, include the propensity for the number of jobs created to disappoint in March as well as weaker-than-expected jobless claims for the week that the government conducts its survey for the data.If you’d like to get The Daily Prophet in e-mail form, right in your inbox, please subscribe to this link. Thanks!DON'T MISSThe Fed Will Look Past This Latest Turmoil in Markets: Tim DuyWhat Markets Can Expect Next From China: David MillhouseEcuador Wants Less Julian Assange, More Investors: Mac MargolisEcon 101 No Longer Explains the Market for Labor: Noah SmithMatt Levine's Money Stuff: Spotify Non-IPO Wasn't Much of an IPO      Professionals offering actionable insights on markets, the economy and monetary policy. Contributors may have a stake in the areas they write about.    

2018-04-02T20:00:00.006Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-02/japan-s-central-bank-wants-you-to-be-wary-of-cryptocurrencies
Bitcoin investing is popular in Japan, but the nation has also had several high-profile cryptocurrency heists. Now, the central bank has come up with a rather negative Q&A for those seeking answers on cryptos.The page is called “Let’s think about cryptocurrencies!" and was released on a financial education site run by the Bank of Japan. It’s broadly aimed at the general public and includes questions about whether cryptocurrencies can be considered money, whether you can profit off them, and whether it’s likely they will be stolen again.As bitcoin closed out a dismal quarter, the BOJ raising awareness about crypto risks is unlikely to cheer market bulls. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has previously expressed apprehension about them, and the finance ministers and central bank governors of the Group of 20 nations last month warned that cryptos could destabilize financial markets.The BOJ’s Q&A, published last week, gives a basic overview of cryptocurrencies, explaining how they’re different from traditional currencies, notes there’s no central bank to back them up, and details how you won’t necessarily profit from investing in them.Click here to read more on how Japan’s cracking down on cryptos.One question in the crypto Q&A page asks “Shouldn’t we ban something we don’t really understand?” In response, the central bank says that cryptos have yet to truly fulfill the goals of their creators, but concedes that if the technology advances enough, there’s still a possibility they could create a new system that dramatically improves people’s lives.

2018-04-04T17:51:04.885Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-04/ripple-is-said-to-struggle-to-buy-u-s-listing-for-popular-coin
Ripple has a problem.The startup controls the world’s third-largest cryptocurrency, XRP. Banks have signed onto its network and bought equity stakes in its business, which wants to rewire how money moves around the world. And yet when it comes to obtaining a coveted listing for XRP on two of the top U.S. cryptocurrency exchanges, Ripple hasn’t been able to close the deal.It isn’t for lack of trying. Last year, the San Francisco-based company suggested paying financial incentives to the venues, Gemini and Coinbase, according to four people with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified discussing private information.For all the hype surrounding Ripple and XRP, its absence on markets like Gemini and Coinbase is eye-catching. By dangling money in front of exchanges, Ripple signaled that its future success hinges in part on getting XRP listed on the top trading venues. But there’s a major headwind in that effort: U.S. officials have warned unlicensed exchanges not to list tokens that could be deemed securities. XRP’s control by a single company has fueled speculation it could fall under that designation.Tokens plunge from record high after Coinbase debunks listing rumorsSource: CoinDeskLast year, a Ripple executive asked whether a $1 million cash payment could persuade Gemini to list XRP in the third quarter, according to people familiar with the matter. That followed other attempts by Ripple to get Gemini to add XRP, exploring strategies like paying out rebates and covering related costs, the people said.During preliminary talks with Coinbase last fall, Ripple said it would be willing to lend the exchange more than $100 million worth of XRP to start letting users trade the asset, according to a person privy to that discussion. Ripple, without putting the proposal in writing, told Coinbase it could pay back the loan in XRP or dollars, the person said. If the exchange had chosen the latter, it could have profited had the tokens become more valuable upon being listed, the person said.Gemini and Coinbase both declined to pursue the proposals, the people said.Presented with a description of Ripple’s proposals to the exchanges, company spokeswoman Emmalee Kremer said some of the information was inaccurate but declined to specify which details she was disputing. “Regardless, Ripple has always been transparent about our focus on building and growing a strong XRP ecosystem,” she said. “We want XRP to be the most liquid digital asset possible to enable faster, cheaper global payments.”Gemini, which was co-founded by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, declined to comment. A Coinbase representative declined to discuss specific assets, but referred Bloomberg to the exchange’s listing framework.It’s not necessarily unusual to pay for a cryptocurrency listing. Costs range from $1 million “for a reasonably regarded token, to $3 million for an opportunity to get quick liquidity,” according to a report from Autonomous Research, which added that the figures are based on conversations among market participants and aren’t exact.Read more about exchanges charging to list tokensFew things have propelled XRP’s price more in recent months than speculation that the token is set to graduate to a U.S. exchange, which face stricter regulatory purview than markets based in some other parts of the world. A U.S. listing would also cement XRP’s standing among titans of cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin, the most popular and valuable of the bunch.To its adherents, XRP is a valuable link between the world of banking and digital currencies that comes with the backing of a Silicon Valley technology company. XRP is designed to revolutionize how banks move cash across borders, making transactions faster and cheaper. Ripple uses incentives to entice market makers to buy and sell XRP and periodically sells its digital token to institutional investors, according to its website. While the coin doesn’t represent an ownership stake in Ripple, the concern is the close relationship might still lead regulators to deem XRP a security. Authorities are still clarifying which tokens deserve that designation.If XRP is classified as a security, it would be removed from the largely unregulated Wild West of cryptocurrencies and become subject to requirements similar to those that govern assets like stocks. So would exchanges that offer it.Read more about the pile of digital money Ripple has that banks don’t wantYet, investors aren’t giving up. Based on Ripple’s success in gaining new customers as well as speculation it would be listed in the U.S., XRP shot up more than 14 times in value between early December and early January, according to data compiled by CoinDesk. That was before Coinbase debunked speculation that it had decided to offer XRP on its market. Another surge came on March 5, after CNBC scheduled Ripple Chief Executive Officer Brad Garlinghouse and Coinbase Chief Operating Officer Asiff Hirji to appear on the same program the next day, setting off speculation that they were about to announce a listing.Paying for a listing could be perfectly legal, given that traditional markets charge such fees, said Jesse Overall, an attorney at Clifford Chance. But things could get complicated if a digital token were later deemed to be an unregistered security, he said. In such a case, both the exchange and issuer could face penalties, he said.“Listing on an exchange is the integral part of the process of facilitating an unregistered, unlawful, illegal securities issuance to people who are not allowed to buy,” Overall said.Companies are required to pay for listings on the largest U.S. stock exchanges, but they also must meet and maintain listing requirements. For instance, Nasdaq Inc.’s stock markets can charge annual listing fees ranging from $42,000 to $155,000, according to the company’s rule book.Gemini and Coinbase limit the cryptocurrencies that trade on their platforms. Gemini customers can only trade Bitcoin and Ether, though the Winklevoss brothers said last month that they want to expand to others such as Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin. Coinbase has Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether and Litecoin and reiterated on March 5 that it hasn’t decided whether it will add new coins.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said that platforms serving as trading venues for digital assets deemed to be securities will need to register with the agency as a national exchange, or qualify for an exemption. The regulator also subpoenaed firms and individuals behind coin offerings it believes might be breaking the law, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said earlier this year. An SEC spokesman declined to comment on the agency’s view of XRP.The SEC’s warnings have resonated in the industry. In March, the Winklevoss twins submitted a proposal for a regulatory body to govern digital-currency markets and custodians.There’s a reason listing fees aren’t as common in crypto as they are on traditional securities platforms, said Dave Weisberger, CEO of CoinRoutes, a cryptocurrency data and order routing company.“In the equity space, listing fees have always historically been coupled with the notion of regulation,” while digital currencies are relatively unsupervised, he said.Yet the motive to list is still there: A crypto issuer paying to get their token on an exchange “could make 100 times that payment by selling off those coins when it lists,” Weisberger said.— With assistance by Benjamin Bain, and Peter Eichenbaum

2018-04-04T12:00:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-04/foxconn-to-manufacture-blockchain-phone-from-sirin-labs
Foxconn Technology Group grew into the world’s largest electronics manufacturer for hire by churning out best-selling products such as iPhones, Kindles and PlayStations. Now, it’s deploying that power to bring cryptocurrencies to the masses.A subsidiary of Foxconn has agreed to help develop and produce a blockchain phone from Sirin Labs, according to the startup. The new device, called the Finney, is designed to help owners securely store and use digital coins such as Bitcoin, as well as related services.While millions of people have bought Bitcoins, relatively few bother to use them for daily transactions. To prevent theft, owners have to keep the coins on special memory sticks until needed, then remember user names and passwords that can be dozens of characters long.With the current user experience, “the mass market would never get it,” Sirin Chief Executive Officer Moshe Hogeg said in an interview. “There’s no chance my mom can figure out how to use Bitcoin, and my mom is smart.”Sirin raised $158 million in December for the project in an initial coin offering, in addition to $70 million raised previously. The phone is slated to ship in October. Sirin plans to sell the device through eight new stores, located in places with the most active crypto communities, such as Vietnam and Turkey. Hogeg said he hopes it will eventually be sold through mobile carriers as well. So far, more than 25,000 units have been preordered, the company said. Sirin aims to ship from 100,000 to a few million units this year.The device seeks to integrate all kinds of tokens. It will let owners shop on crypto friendly sites like Overstock.com and Expedia, converting cash into specialized tokens if needed. Users may also activate their phone’s Wi-Fi while commuting and get paid in tokens by fellow bus riders looking for access to a wireless network.Sirin said the Finney will handle all coin-related services in a part of the phone that’s activated with a physical switch. Instead of keying in a complex address and private key, Sirin said users may eventually verify their identities with an iris scan, a fingerprint and a simple password.While the phone’s architecture seems secure, there’s a risk that thieves could kidnap Finney owners and access wallets by force, said Matt Suiche, founder of security provider Comae Technologies.“It looked like the phone design was designed to stand out visually -- to make it more appealing to the public from a sales point of view,” Suiche said in an email. “But it always makes it easier to identify targets.”Switzerland-based Sirin hopes to license its technology to other phone manufacturers. Such software deals could push down the price from Finney’s $1,000 to as little as $200.“I think I can take it to a mass market phone in a world where innovation in phones is saturated, it’s dead,” Hogeg said. He said he expected deals with two smaller manufacturers, and is in conversations with a top supplier. Sirin is in talks with Huawei Technologies Ltd., Bloomberg has reported. Foxconn declined to comment.“In order for the user base to truly grow, solutions need to be compatible with existing hardware and focus on a broad spectrum of users,” Lucas Nuzzi, an analyst at Digital Asset Research, said in an email.Sirin is hoping to get to the mass market before competitors like Zippie and BitVault. Zippie, which raised $30 million in an initial coin offering in February, was created by a 10-person team with experience at Nokia and Jolla, a mobile operating-system company. The startup also will license its software to hardware manufacturers, said founder Antti Saarnio. BitVault has already shipped some units for evaluation in military applications in Asia, and is considering eventually shipping its blockchain phone directly to consumers, said Hein Marais, CEO of maker Embedded Downloads.Whether Sirin can turn this product into a blockbuster remains to be seen. Some of Hogeg’s previous ventures didn’t go far. What’s more, most people don’t yet use cryptocurrency or blockchain. Only 8 percent of Americans has invested in digital tokens, according to Finder.com.And the phone market is difficult. But Hogeg is undaunted.“I want to do something that’s better than the current user experience,” he said. “In the end when you look at the Chinese wall, it started with one guy taking one small brick and putting it into place. And then another one and then another one. We can do it step by step.”

2018-04-04T21:50:50.825Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-04/asia-stocks-point-to-gains-after-u-s-rally-markets-wrap
U.S. stocks rose for a third day as White House officials signaled that the president’s tough talk on trade won’t lead to growth-sapping tariffs. Treasuries fell and the dollar gained.The S&P 500 Index closed at the highest level in more than two weeks as investors grew more confident the administration’s protectionist rhetoric wouldn’t result in equally stringent policy. The dollar strengthened for the third time this week, while the 10-year Treasury yield popped above 2.83 percent ahead of Friday’s payroll numbers.“After the initial introduction of trade tensions and the back and forth between the U.S. and China and consternation around Nafta, the markets are now beginning to see through the bluster of negotiations and they’re dialing back some of their most significant fears of a full on trade war,” Kevin Caron, a senior portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, said by phone.Stocks regained a measure of poise after representatives from the U.S. and China left the door open for a negotiated solution to avoid tariff proposals that aren’t set to take effect for several months. Federal Reserve officials said it’s premature to fully assess the impact of the trade dispute, which is adding uncertainty to an otherwise bright economic outlook ahead of the jobs report.Meanwhile, Facebook Inc. climbed as traders took in stride a company disclosure that data on most of its 2 billion users could have been harvested improperly by third parties. Investors are cautiously returning to technology shares after a selloff last month gave momentum to a global equity correction.Elsewhere, oil gained and Bitcoin held below $7,000. European equities caught up to the American rebound, surging the most in two months as every sector rallied. The pound fell after purchasing managers’ data for February disappointed.Terminal users can read more in our markets live blog.Here are some key events for the remainder of this week:And these are the main moves in markets:— With assistance by Lu Wang, and Todd White

2017-12-15T15:51:26.876Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-12-15/a-better-botox-may-target-millenials-men-and-hesitant-women
Revance Therapeutics Inc’s lead asset is a new form of botulinum toxin, akin to the best-selling wrinkle eraser, Botox, but with a key difference, durability, according to Chief Executive Officer Daniel Browne.Recent results in a late-stage study may back up his claim. The Newark, California-based drug developer plans to leverage that durability claim to expand into previously untapped markets rather than just challenging Botox and its maker, Allergan Plc, Browne said in an interview at Bloomberg LP’s New York office.When pressed on how his company could drive expansion in a field where Botox has been dominant for nearly three decades, Browne talks about moving into new therapeutic areas that Allergan hasn’t dipped into yet, like plantar fasciitis, a common cause of heel pain in runners and overweight patients. Revance is expected to report results from a mid-stage study in plantar fasciitis before the year ends. Revance plans to use cash from a recent stock offering for more research and development, as well as to speed along development of a program in cervical dystonia, a painful and under-diagnosed condition that causes a person’s head to twist to one side. The Food and Drug Administration awarded Revance an orphan drug designation for the program.For more on Botox, see: This Bio-Terrorism Toxin Can Kill, Or Make You Look Young AgainBrowne also envisions tapping into the aesthetic market by winning over women who may have been on the fence about starting multiple repeat injections with Botox. Millennials and men are another target in that Revance’s CEO could see pressing into. For fresh-faced millennials, the pitch could be using the wrinkle reducer as a preventative treatment to stop them before they start.But millennials don’t need to open their wallets or dip into their bitcoin just yet. RT002, Revance’s experimental therapy, isn’t likely to get Food and Drug Administration approval and be available at plastic surgeons’ offices before 2020. That time-line didn’t stop shares in Allergan from sliding on Dec. 5. That’s when the small-cap reported results from two late-stage trials that showed RT002 kept wrinkles between the eyebrows from returning for about six months on average, longer than Botox where the label states it lasts about three to four months. That’s potentially good news for trypanophobists, who want to look younger but hate needles.Revance does have its detractors. Analysts from Wells Fargo to Morgan Stanley rushed to Allergan’s defense, saying the drop in the Dublin-domiciled, Madison, New Jersey-based company’s shares was “overdone.” Morgan Stanley saw patients’ own assessments of RT002’s effectiveness as similar when compared to Botox patient-reported results. The scales used to compare patient responses were different, with Botox using an eight-point scale and RT002 a four-point scale. It “may be marginally easier for Botox,” to show a difference, Morgan Stanley wrote.Allergan also scoffed, with a spokesman writing in an email shortly after the results were made public that “the Revance Phase 3 results reported for RT002 don’t support a longer duration claim.” Browne countered: “Allergan has never by any scale been able to get beyond 16-weeks, we were able to get beyond 24-weeks on multiple scales.”Analysts have also pointed to Revance’s dose is double Botox’s twenty units, but “a unit of Revance is not a unit of Botox,” says Browne, pointing to medical literature penned in part by Allergan’s chief scientific officer for Botox, Mitchell Brin. The article says dose response data for Botox in wrinkles between the eyebrows “showed that 20 units was not statistically different from 30 or 40 units, but that 10 units was statistically significantly less effective.”Still it’s not a zero-sum game, Browne said. Shorter-acting products like Botox could be “complementary” to what he sees as the next-generation neuro-modulators. A longer acting product could provide patients “better outcomes and pharmacoeconomics.” Ultimately, “the label matters” and for Revance investors, they’ll just have to wait until a few years to see that.

2018-03-28T19:42:49.843Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/bitcoin-bull-tom-lee-says-hodl-on-during-slumps-for-big-gains
Bitcoin advocate Thomas Lee is leaning on his years of experience as a stock analyst when warning cryptocurrency investors that they need to be patient in the wake of this year’s more than 40 percent decline.Thomas Lee“Market timing is generally discouraged in traditional equity investing,” Lee, the former chief equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note Wednesday. “If an investor missed out on the 10 best days (for S&P 500) each year, the annualized return drops to 5.4 percent (ex-10 best), from 9.2 percent. In other words, the case for buy and hold in equities is the opportunity cost of missing out on the 10 best days.”If an investor missed out on the 10 best days for Bitcoin each year, the annualized return drops 25 percent annually, wrote Lee, managing partner and head of research of Fundstrat Global Advisors LLC. On average, Bitcoin was down every year with the exclusion of the top 10 day gains, according to Fundstrat data. With a handful of days each year accounting for the bulk of Bitcoin’s gains, holding is a sensible option, he said.That may bring some comfort for those pledging to HODL -- one frenzied trader’s misspelled entreaty to hold onto the tokens during an earlier rout that’s become the mantra of Bitcoin purists.Bitcoin is trading at the breakeven cost of mining, at about $8,000, based on a model by Fundstrat. “The overhang from regulatory risk is generally keeping investors sidelined," Fundstrat analysts including Robert Sluymer wrote in the note. "However, we see positive catalysts for Bitcoin later in 2018, including the clarification of regulatory hurdles."Combined with the overhang from U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission actions and political backlash coming from Washington on cryptocurrencies, Fundstrat predicts a "purgatory" period forecast of 150 to 175 days aiming for mid-September.

2018-04-03T11:52:32.686Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-03/slumps-ancient-history-and-lying-to-facebook
My Tuesday morning train reads:What are you reading?Source: RecodeWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-04-03T21:00:00.019Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-03/bloomberg-vice-index-shows-cost-of-drugs-alcohol-around-world
The cost of maintaining a drugs, booze and cigarettes habit got a lot more expensive in the U.S. last year, rising the most of almost anywhere in the world, the annual Bloomberg Global Vice Index shows.Americans had to fork out over $200 more for a basket of so-called vice goods last year versus 2016, with only New Zealand seeing a bigger increase. The gauge compares the share of income needed to maintain a broad weekly habit of cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, amphetamines, cocaine and opioids across more than 100 countries. Doing so eats up more than a third of the average weekly paycheck in more than three quarters of the economies tracked, the index shows.The gauge is purely an economic indicator, not a judgment about morality or legality. Nor does it track gambling, prostitution or other illicit activities.Vice is cheapest in Luxembourg, where the cost comes in at less than 10 percent of the $2,071 average weekly wage, which is the highest in the world. The Bahamas, Switzerland, Iceland and France round out the top five for affordability.By contrast, Ukrainians must spend 13 times their weekly salary for the same fix, making it one of the costliest places for those making local wages. Pakistan, Nepal and Burkina Faso also score near the top for higher prices.The vice indicator uses U.S. prices as the global benchmark. At 54 percent of pay, or $617, U.S. ranked 38 in terms of affordability, compared with 17 a year earlier.In absolute terms, the gross weekly cost exceeded $1,000 in only three countries: Japan, New Zealand and Australia. By comparison, an equivalent basket ran less than $100 in 21 mostly tropical countries, including the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Congo, Colombia, South Africa, Guatemala, Kenya and Myanmar.While laws remain a key factor for narcotics prices, those dynamics may be in flux as more drug sales move online. The new avenues make some drug markets less risky as they let users “buy drugs with a cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin, and have their purchases delivered to them in a concealed manner,” the United Nations 2017 World Drug Report says.“Something like Bitcoin has appealed to dealers because it’s anonymous,” said Jonathan Caulkins, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and former co-director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. “Banking creates a trail that they don’t want.”Vice prices tumbled the most in Iran, Norway and South Korea, all of which saw the weekly tab for the basket of drugs, alcohol and tobacco fall by more than $200 from the prior year.The difficulty in collecting data on illegal activity means survey responses often have a lag, which makes comparisons harder. As a result, nations with missing data weren’t included in the overall index and those with data had wide estimated ranges.This year’s Bloomberg Vice Index also included the size of the “shadow” drug economy in different regions by approximating the retail value of narcotics seized by law enforcement.Like other businesses, retail-wholesale pricing dynamics and supply-chain management are the keys to efficiency. “A shadow economy, or underground economy, is run as an efficient business like the official one,” said Friedrich Schneider, an economics professor at Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Austria.On markups for narcotics prices, “cannabis markets tend to be more competitive in most countries, especially because it is frequently produced locally,” according to Manolis Galenianos, an economics professor at Royal Holloway University of London.“Cocaine and opioids, by contrast, have to be imported from abroad, which requires a much higher level of sophistication and is, therefore, done by only a few organizations,” leading to more concentrated markets and higher markups, Galenianos said.Bloomberg’s vice basket tracks average retail prices for:Data are sourced from the UN, World Health Organization, World Bank and International Monetary Fund.Here’s a look at the top 75 most affordable places for vice:— With assistance by Alexandre Tanzi, Hannah Dormido, and Adrian Leung

2018-04-02T13:44:28.266Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-02/crypto-hedge-fund-bubble-begins-to-deflate-as-returns-tumble
The reckoning is starting for crypto hedge funds.Demand and profits are drying up at many of the more than 150 funds that popped during last year’s spectacular surge in Bitcoin -- which brought cryptocurrencies to the attention of scores of institutional and individual investors. This year’s 50 percent plunge in the value of Bitcoin has many investors thinking twice. At about $7,000, the currency is at its lowest since November.“New capital has slowed, even for a higher-profile fund like ours,” Kyle Samani, co-founder of Austin, Texas-based Multicoin Capital, said in an email. Multicoin, whose fund went live in August, manages about $50 million in assets.At least nine funds have been shuttered, with some, such as Crowd Crypto Fund, deleting websites, Twitter and Facebook accounts. Alpha Protocol, a distributed fund, posted this message on its site: “Considering the potential regulatory and market risks, AlphaProtocol has decided that the best approach is to refund the private sale contributors.”Source: Autonomous Research LLPPolychain Capital, likely the largest hedge fund in the sector with about $250 million under management as of September, decided in January against going public in Canada. Billionaire Mike Novogratz scrapped plans to launch a crypto fund in December, shifting his efforts to a merchant bank focused on cryptocurrencies and ventures based on related technologies.Gains of more than 1,000 percent at some funds last year helped spread the euphoria that made Bitcoin the topic of holiday gatherings and mainstream news coverage. This year has been a different story, with returns already down 23 percent, according to Eurekahedge Crypto-Currency Hedge Fund Index.Hedge Funds Flip ICOs, Leaving Other Investors Holding the BagUp to 10 percent of all crypto funds could close by year-end, according to Lex Sokolin, global director of fintech strategy at Autonomous Research LLP. Rick Marini, founding partner at Protocol Ventures, which invests in crypto funds including Multicoin and Polychain, thinks that only 50 funds will we able to raise enough outside capital to be sustainable enough to serve institutional investors. The rest will be in trouble.Even with prices plunging, new funds keep cropping up as optimists bet on the transformative nature of blockchain, the distributed ledger technology that is at the heart of Bitcoin, as well as rivals such as Ethereum, Ripple and Litecoin.Marini said he currently receives emailed pitches from three new crypto hedge funds a day on average. He typically meets with two -- and only plans to invest in one to two new funds in all of the rest of 2018, he said.“We are going to see it by the end of this year,” Marini said. “People are able to leverage good returns last year to try to raise money this year, but this year is going to be different.”

2018-03-29T18:27:55.443Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-29/almost-half-of-fund-allocators-don-t-know-what-to-make-of-crypto
Bitcoin and other digital currencies have been around for almost a decade. Apparently, that’s not enough time to form an opinion.Almost half of the more than 400 institutional allocators, such as pensions, sovereign wealth funds and family offices, surveyed at a Context Summits conference in Miami said they don’t know what to make of cryptocurrencies. Twenty-seven percent of the respondents consider them to be a legitimate asset class, while 26 percent think they’re a fraud. The survey was conducted from Jan. 31 to Feb. 2.While crypto funds seem to be popping up everywhere -- 167 launched in 2017, more than eight times the year prior, according to Autonomous Research -- they may struggle to gain widespread acceptance from those responsible for overseeing other people’s wealth. Eleven percent of those surveyed at the industry conference said they plan to allocate to crypto funds this year. Seventy-one percent said they won’t, and 18 percent were undecided.Source: Context Capital Partners LPAlternative-investment allocators may be taking a wait-and-see approach, as U.S. regulators are still considering how to handle the phenomenon. The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing everything from initial coin offerings to trading venues, but exactly how it might crack down on the industry remains to be seen. The SEC has been examining the business practices of crypto hedge funds, Bloomberg News reported this month, asking how they price their digital investments and seeking information on compliance with rules meant to prevent the theft of clients’ cash.— With assistance by Camila Russo, and Olga Kharif

2018-03-29T11:36:30.074Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-29/bitcoin-sinks-past-7-500-in-downbeat-end-to-dismal-quarter
Bitcoin’s miserable quarter isn’t over yet.The world’s biggest cryptocurrency by market value dropped below the $7,000 mark Friday morning in Asia, the first time it’s breached that level since early February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell as low as $6,912 before rebounding, trading at $7,094 as of 7:50 a.m in Hong Kong. The moves took the token’s losses in 2018 to a whopping 50 percent, and other digital assets, including rivals Ripple and Litecoin, slumped more.In addition, regulatory pressure is mounting in the cryptocurrency space, while major social media platforms are distancing themselves from the industry. Reddit Inc., a community hub popular in the crypto community, no longer accepts payments made in Bitcoin, while Twitter Inc. confirmed Monday that it’s banning advertisements for initial coin offerings, joining Facebook and Google.Looming over the market are sales of Bitcoin held by the trustee of Mt Gox, the now-defunct Japanese exchange. The trustee sold about $400 million in Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash in the last few months to reimburse the exchange’s creditors, according to his recent report. The trustee had said that he will sell more of the cryptocurrency he holds. As of early March, he was sitting on more than $1 billion.“Bitcoin is under selling pressure again and chances of its recovery are looking slim,” Naeem Aslam, the chief market analyst at TF Global Markets, said in a note. It has “slid significantly, since the tech giants’ ban on ICOs,” he noted.The slump this year is its biggest quarterly decline since 2011. Keep in mind that Bitcoin rallied 1,400 percent last year.

2018-04-03T14:08:13.689Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-03/it-s-just-another-day-at-the-office-for-spotify
Programming note: Money Stuff will be off tomorrow but back on Thursday.Happy Spotify Day!"U.S. stocks had their worst April start since 1929," reported Bloomberg News yesterday, and while careful technical analysis reveals that we are only one trading day into April, it was still a bad day. The S&P 500 was down 2.2 percent on the day, and closed below its 200-day moving average. So, I dunno, would you launch an initial public offering into a market like that? If you are Spotify Technology SA, the answer is "ehhh whatever I don't care it's not really an IPO anyway." Typically you try not to launch an IPO when markets are lurching down, investors are worried, and no one has time to give a new public company the generous open-hearted attention that it wants. But with Spotify's direct listing, which is scheduled for this morning, who cares? If no one wants to buy stock this morning, that's fine, they won't, but it'll open and be here and they can buy stock this afternoon. (Er, I mean, maybe it'll open this afternoon: The opening auction takes time, and "the NYSE and others close to the deal have warned it could take an unusually long time to open.") If no one wants to sell into a choppy market, that's fine, they won't, but it'll open and be here and they can sell tomorrow. There is no symbolically important IPO price to care about, and Spotify isn't raising money, so there is no money to be left on the table by pricing in a bad market. You just quietly flip the public-market switch from Off to On and don't worry too much about what happens after that. It's sort of soothing.We talked last month about how Spotify is getting rid of a lot of the annoying trappings of the IPO process -- lockups, greenshoes, roadshows -- in a way that might be appealing to other private companies. This is another one. Just do your thing when you were planning to do your thing. Don't have a bunch of bankers sitting around making serious noises about market conditions. The market conditions don't matter. They're just today's conditions, and there's nothing special about today. The market conditions will be different tomorrow, and you'll still be just as public tomorrow.Elsewhere, here is a blog post from Spotify's co-founder and chief executive officer, Daniel Ek, about how no one should care about today's direct listing. ("But what’s even more important to me is that tomorrow does not become the most important day for Spotify.") And Bloomberg's Alex Barinka explains "Why Spotify Doesn’t Want a Stock Pop on Its First Day of Trading," and it seems that Spotify is worried, as I have been, that no one will sell:The best case scenario would be modest intraday movement with trading volume similar to a typical IPO, in which 50 percent to 100 percent of tradable shares change hands, the people said. The worst would be a stock that swings wildly or lacks the available shares to trade smoothly. ...A key aim has been getting as many of the existing shareholders who want to sell to agree to do so as quickly as possible, even before the open price is set, the people said. That could help manage volatility and generate sufficient supply to ward off a liquidity squeeze, in which a shortage of shares runs up their price.If Spotify's market capitalization is $50 billion by the end of today, that will probably be a sign that something has gone wrong. Sadly, like it says above, Money Stuff will be off tomorrow, so we will have to meet back here on Thursday for a postmortem. Private markets are the new public markets.That's a thing that I say a lot, but here is a front-page Wall Street Journal article about it:At least $2.4 trillion was raised privately in the U.S. last year. That widened a gap that emerged in 2011 with the public markets, which raised $2.1 trillion, according to the Journal’s analysis of tens of thousands of securities filings and data provider Dealogic. Deals known as private placements, the largest chunk of the private markets, raised at least $1.6 trillion for businesses last year, according to the Journal’s analysis of more than 40,000 filings.The private markets are now where the money is. If you are a company that is raising money, the odds are that you are doing it privately. If you are a company that is doing a share buyback, on the other hand, the odds are that you are a public company. That sorting is not absolute, but it is a useful guide: You stay private to raise money and build your business and grow; you go public to allow your investors to cash out.Obviously people are worried about this. One leading worry is that if the growing interesting speculative companies that need cash are increasingly private, while the public companies are increasingly boring, then the sorts of people who can only invest in public companies -- that is, most normal investors -- won't have great investment choices:Securities laws keep ordinary investors out of these high-growth markets, forcing the “little guy” to stick with a stock market that Elizabeth de Fontenay, a law professor at Duke University, describes as becoming a “holding pen for massive, sleepy corporations.”This is Jay Clayton's worry at the Securities and Exchange Commission, and we've talked about it before, and it's widely shared, especially at the SEC:At an SEC conference last year, Michael Piwowar, a commissioner, questioned “the notion that nonaccredited investors are truly protected by regulations that prevent them from investing in high-risk, high-return securities available only to the Davos jet set.”And it's reasonable enough, though I don't know how much of it is regulatory. Even in the absence of regulation, if you had a choice between raising money by going around to thousands of individual investors and asking each of them for a few thousand dollars, or just having SoftBank write a giant check, you might choose SoftBank. The private markets are just more flexible than the public markets, in part for regulatory reasons but also because dealing with identified sophisticated counterparties is often easier than dealing with mass anonymous markets. It might be nice for "Mr. and Ms. 401(k)" if they could invest in the next hot new startup, but you can't force the hot new startup to take them as investors.But there's another worry that goes something like this:Even when companies disclose private placements, the very limited information leaves most in the dark.Telegram is a good example. It has said nothing about the fundraising for its planned new digital network and banking system. It isn’t even clear who owns the company. The website says Telegram is “supported” by Russian brothers Pavel Durov and Nikolai Durov, who were named as Telegram executives in the SEC filing for the $850 million funding.Who are the "most" who are being left in the dark here? Telegram's investors, presumably, get the information that they want. I mean, perhaps they'd like more information, but they get the information that they require to invest, and if they don't, they don't have to invest. They are, by hypothesis, sophisticated; they can make the decision to invest with imperfect information, or to demand more information. But other people are left in the dark. If companies don't go public, then they don't make public filings. They don't have to disclose much financial and business information to the public: They might disclose it to their investors, or they might not, but they don't publish it on the SEC's website for everyone to see. This is, of course, nice for them: They don't publish financial and business information for their competitors to see. But it is less nice for everyone else. It is less nice for competitors who want to understand the competition, and public-market investors who want to understand the industry, and journalists who want to write about them, and random bystanders who want to read about them.Who cares? What right does anyone have to find out things about private companies? I think the real critique goes something like this: The corporation is a societal construct; we give limited liability and other rights to the corporate form, but we expect something of corporations too. Our expectations are poorly articulated: There's some tax stuff (but you can opt out of that), and you need to register the corporation, but in general most of the social expectations are informal and customary rather than legally ironclad. You can have a corporation -- even a big one -- without going public and filing with the SEC and giving your audited financial statements to anyone who wants them. But most big corporations used to do all that stuff, because it was more or less necessary in practice even if it wasn't legally required: Without doing that stuff, you couldn't raise money publicly, so you couldn't get big.But now you can raise money privately and get as big as you like, and so a lot of the customary stuff is no longer necessary in practice, for the companies, or for their investors. The question now is which parts of the old corporate bargain are still necessary for society -- do we want the norm for big companies to be disclosed audited financials, or can we skip it? -- and how those parts should be implemented. Because the old way of implementing them seems to be losing its grip.The Zuckerberg.Facebook Inc. founder Mark Zuckerberg gave kind of a weird interview to Ezra Klein, in which Klein keeps prodding Zuckerberg about why Facebook keeps misleading people and spreading ethnic-cleansing propaganda in Myanmar and behaving like an unaccountable behemoth, and Zuckerberg responds with a series of clicks and whirrs:Zuckerberg: You mentioned our governance. One of the things that I feel really lucky we have is this company structure where, at the end of the day, it’s a controlled company. We are not at the whims of short-term shareholders. We can really design these products and decisions with what is going to be in the best interest of the community over time.Klein: That is one of the ways Facebook is different, but I can imagine reading it both ways. On the one hand, your control of voting shares makes you more insulated from short-term pressures of the market. On the other hand, you have a lot more personal power. There’s no quadrennial election for CEO of Facebook. And that’s a normal way that democratic governments ensure accountability. Do you think that governance structure makes you, in some cases, less accountable?Zuckerberg: I certainly think that’s a fair question. My goal here is to create a governance structure around the content and the community that reflects more what people in the community want than what short-term-oriented shareholders might want. And if we do that well, then I think that could really break ground on governance for an internet community. But if we don’t do it well, then I think we’ll fail to handle a lot of the issues that are coming up.If we govern the governance well then the governance will be well governed, but if we fail to govern governance well then there will not be well-governed governance, human. Well honestly what do you expect him to say? He had a deal with his investors. They gave him money, and they let him run the company with essentially no oversight, and in exchange he made them enormously rich. What's it to you, human? Everyone went into the deal with their eyes open, and Zuckerberg has held up his end of the deal. There is no problem here. If he governs the governance poorly, then people will continue to complain, and he will continue to control Facebook and shrug. Presumably he wanted to keep control of Facebook because he believed that his own instincts were benevolent and wise, and he seems unlikely to be moved off that view of himself just by some ethnic cleansing in a faraway country.It's the same issue as in the private markets, isn't it? Facebook is a public company, but it is, as Zuckerberg says, a controlled one. The bargain between its entrepreneur-founder and its capital providers is well understood, and it basically works for all of them. (The stock is down 12 percent this year, but up 300 percent since its IPO.) The question is whether the bargain works for the rest of the world, and if not, what the rest of the world can do about it.Fascinatingly, Zuckerberg has some ideas:But over the long term, what I’d really like to get to is an independent appeal. So maybe folks at Facebook make the first decision based on the community standards that are outlined, and then people can get a second opinion. You can imagine some sort of structure, almost like a Supreme Court, that is made up of independent folks who don’t work for Facebook, who ultimately make the final judgment call on what should be acceptable speech in a community that reflects the social norms and values of people all around the world.What even? Who would appoint the Supreme Court of Facebook? Would they have to be confirmed by the Senate of Facebook?Elsewhere, "It's Weirdly Hard to Steal Mark Zuckerberg's Trash."The crypto."I see us taking over as being the No. 1 company that people will use to use their crypto assets," a guy told the New York Times's Nathaniel Popper in October. "Once our proof of concept goes from beta to live, I think that we are going to take market dominance in the full aspect." Just reading those words you kind of knew he was going to be arrested for securities fraud, right? On Sunday he was arrested for securities fraud.He and his co-founder (who "was arrested before he was able to board his flight" out of the country) ran Centra Tech. Inc., which raised money in an initial coin offering and which supposedly issued Visa and MasterCard cards that you could use to spend your Bitcoins and Ether and and other hard-to-spend cryptocurrencies. That's a useful product! You can see why people would want it, and would want to invest in it. "Neither Visa nor Mastercard, however, had any relationship or partnership with Centra," says the Securities and Exchange Commission's complaint, "and certainly none where Centra was authorized to issue, sell, or otherwise distribute Visa or Mastercard credit or other payment cards." Floyd Mayweather promoted the ICO on Twitter. They "raised at least $32 million from thousands of investors." In other news:Longfin Corp. took advantage of post-financial-crisis rules designed to create jobs and help young companies go public. But the financial-technology company, which was valued at $5.4 billion as recently as 10 days ago, is now under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission after it failed to disclose important information and left a trail of misstatements behind.You might remember Longfin as the company founded by a self-proclaimed "financial wizard" who "believes that every piece of information is worth millions," which announced a fairly nonsensical pivot to the blockchain and then became worth billions of dollars. I am sure that will work out great for everyone. Meanwhile, I am really looking forward to reading an article about how cryptocurrency hedge funds don't really hedge, and lost as much money as the broader crypto markets during this crypto downturn, and how you would have been better off just investing in a crypto index fund. I mean I don't know if any of that is true, but I have my suspicions, and you can certainly read the same sort of thing about regular hedge funds so why not the crypto ones? In any case:The reckoning is starting for crypto hedge funds.Demand and profits are drying up at many of the more than 150 funds that popped during last year’s spectacular surge in Bitcoin -- which brought cryptocurrencies to the attention of scores of institutional and individual investors. This year’s 50 percent plunge in the value of Bitcoin has many investors thinking twice. At about $7,000, the currency is at its lowest since November.Elsewhere, "Hedge fund billionaire Alan Howard made sizable personal investments in cryptocurrencies last year and plans to put more of his own money into digital assets and the blockchain technology behind them." And: "Bitcoin Network Researchers See ‘Substantial’ Overvaluation." And: "The Truth Behind the Bitcoin 'Cult' Trying to Buy a Church in Brooklyn."Things happen.Acting Chief Recommends Reining In Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Treasury Meets With Banks, Trading Firms As It Weighs Releasing More Market Data. Five Key Players at the Heart of Deutsche Bank’s Drama. Private equity funds receive record amounts of capital. Goldman faces class action over female pay discrimination. Volatility Trades Return to ETP Market. Elon Musk Is Back to Sleeping at the Factory. Elliott Management Targets Board Overhaul at Commvault. A top White House adviser’s risky move: He gave stock advice. Billionaire Seeks Buyer for Resort With World's Largest Indoor Rainforest. Man builds highway off-ramp. Stephen Schwarzman blocked from renaming his old high school. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-03-29T17:39:54.605Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-29/the-ancient-history-of-bitcoin
In the 1920s a Florida citrus grower named William Howey hit on a way to raise money from investors. He would sell them strips of land in his groves and tend the trees on their behalf, giving them a share of the profit after the harvest. The transaction was presented as an ordinary sale of real estate, but for practical purposes the buyers had become shareholders in his farm. After Howey died in 1938, the then-new U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sought an injunction against his company to stop the sales. In 1946 the Supreme Court ruled that Howey’s contracts should have been registered with the SEC as securities—essentially, shares of stock.The court said that what matters is the substance of a transaction, not its form. If it waddles like a duck and quacks like a duck, it’s a duck. Keep that wisdom in mind the next time some bluffer tries to dazzle you with a complicated story about cryptocurrencies. When it comes to understanding new technologies, focus on what they do, not how they do it.Governments and policymakers, like investors, have struggled to wrap their minds around cryptocurrencies. The gyrations of Bitcoin and the like can cause speculators to make and lose fortunes. “I don’t really see what the actual true underlying value of some of these cryptocurrencies actually is in practice,” Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley said on Feb. 22. Yves Mersch, a member of the European Central Bank’s Executive Board, likened them in a Feb. 8 speech to “the will-o’-the-wisp, a malignant creature that dwelt in marshes” and lured travelers to “their untimely death and a watery grave.”This is when history can be a guide. Cryptographic money may be new, but money itself is as old as civilization. It’s taken the form of beads, barley, tobacco, cowrie shells, and even giant stone discs, like the great rai of Yap in the South Pacific. Experience with other kinds of money hints that the volatility in the value of cryptocurrencies may be incurable, something that could be a fatal flaw for their use as a medium of exchange.Jesús Fernández-Villaverde, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, counts himself a cryptocurrency skeptic. He argues that today’s profusion of the exotically named tokens—more than 1,500 have been issued—resembles the 19th century heyday of “free banking,” when commercial banks issued their own private-label monies in many countries, including Australia, Sweden, Switzerland, the U.K., and the U.S. In Scotland, the era of free banking lasted for more than a century until it was suppressed by the British Parliament in 1845. During that time Scotland went from poor to nearly as rich as England.There’s one crucial difference between then and now, though, Fernández-Villaverde says, and it has nothing to do with high-speed computing. The difference is that the supply of the currencies could be managed. Scottish banks had a strong incentive to build public confidence in the stability of their currencies, and they calibrated their supply to demand. In contrast, the libertarian appeal of cryptocurrencies is that they can’t be controlled by anybody, even their issuers. There is nothing—and no one—to anchor their value. True, there’s a cap on the number of Bitcoin that can ever be produced, which is supposed to protect it from hyperinflation, but the chaotic ups and downs in price show that it’s vulnerable to speculative inflation and deflation.Another illuminating precedent for cryptocurrencies is the famous (to economists) story of the Capitol Hill Babysitting Cooperative, which was founded in the late 1950s. Members pay other parents to take care of their kids using scrip—private money—that they earn by taking care of other people’s kids. That’s similar to the way “miners” create and earn Bitcoin by using computers. The co-op nearly fell apart in the 1970s because families were hoarding scrip to make sure they could afford a babysitter when they needed one. It was revived when the co-op printed more scrip to take away the incentive to hoard. Cryptocurrencies are equally vulnerable to market failure, but there’s no scope for a beneficial intervention to match supply and demand, as there is with an ordinary currency managed by a competent central bank, says Fernández-Villaverde.So far this has been about cryptocurrencies as money, but a lot of the tokens aren’t intended to be used as alternatives to dollars, euros, or yen. They have narrower functions for special-purpose digital companies. People who buy them are betting that the issuing companies will succeed. In other words, as in the case of William Howey’s orange groves, buyers are effectively acquiring a piece of a business. Since it’s substance rather than form that matters, it would seem that these initial coin offerings should be registered as securities and regulated accordingly. SEC Chairman Jay Clayton argued just that last year, citing the Supreme Court case. “Simply calling something a ‘currency’ or a currency-based product does not mean that it is not a security,” he wrote in a statement of his personal beliefs on Dec. 11.A romantic view persists in some circles that cryptocurrencies are the vanguard of a new era in which governments become less and less important. Legislatures? Unnecessary. Courts? Why bother with them when every contract can be indelibly recorded on the blockchain, the digital ledger that makes cryptocurrencies possible? Well, sure. Except people have been trying to create an unimpeachable record pretty much forever, with limited success. As early as 2340 B.C., the king of Ebla in modern-day Syria sent a diplomatic letter to the king of Hamazi that was like a blockchain, according to a 2017 article in Ledger, a journal devoted to cryptocurrency research, by Chris Berg, a postdoctoral fellow at RMIT University in Melbourne. Writes Berg: “Both blockchain protocols and diplomatic protocols raise the costs of opportunistic behaviour through a combination of a permanent record of past dealings, public and ritualistic verification of transactions, and game-theoretic mechanisms of reciprocity.”Maybe blockchain really is a foolproof record of transactions and promises, as its supporters contend. But experience has taught us that it’s impossible to make anything foolproof because fools are so ingenious. As are crooks. And no matter how strong a contract you can write, people will find a way to renegotiate. There’s even a term, “hard fork,” for what crypto types do to fix a problem when the system that’s supposedly on autopilot doesn’t evolve the way they think it should because of a programming error, a hack, or someone’s change of mind.With apologies to the libertarians and anarchists, the best hope for cryptocurrencies is strong regulation that creates public confidence by weeding out crooks and poseurs. In 1970 the economist George Akerlof published a paper called The Market for “Lemons” that explained how the market for used cars breaks down if people can’t tell which cars are clunkers. Afraid of being cheated, they won’t pay very much, so sellers of good cars will withdraw them from the market, leaving only lemons on the lot. Regulation is thus in the interest of legit used-car dealers—and legit cryptocurrency issuers as well. To quote Ecclesiastes: “There is nothing new under the sun.” —With Matthew Leising and Olga Kharif

2018-04-03T20:51:19.182Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-03/williams-goes-to-new-york-heavy-on-economics-light-on-markets
John Williams would have preferred one of his 20 pairs of tennis shoes. The U.S. central banker has a set for every occasion.John WilliamsBut a recent Friday found the incoming Federal Reserve Bank of New York president in dress loafers, speaking to bankers and entrepreneurs at the City Club in Los Angeles. Currently San Francisco Fed chief, he delivered a rare blend of economics dissertation and stand-up comedy.He teased a woman about her shopping prowess, then joshed with a man who asked about Bitcoin that “you don’t, actually, have to.” Between wisecracks, Williams had a policy message: U.S. growth is strong, unemployment is low, and the Fed will gradually lift interest rates, probably three or four times this year.Fed’s Williams Shifts to N.Y. as Powell Shapes Policy TroikaWilliams’s quirks -- his obsessions also include video games and Elvis Costello -- set him apart from his more buttoned-up Fed colleagues. The style differences are about to gain a wider audience as the Californian takes the helm of the New York Fed, one of the most powerful positions in global central banking that sits at the intersection of Wall Street and the economy.His nonconformity is relevant to the future of Fed policy, because it extends to his economics. While he’s a centrist when it comes to interest rates, Williams made a name for himself from within the Fed system by poking holes in central bank doctrine. His pet project lately centers on convincing his colleagues to rewrite their entire inflation approach ahead of the next recession.His views gained influence on Tuesday, when the New York Fed announced Williams will succeed William Dudley, a former Goldman Sachs executive, as the district bank’s president. The move will make him part of Fed Chairman Jerome Powell’s leadership team. The New York Fed president, the chair and the board’s vice chair have in recent years formed a troika at the heart of Fed decision-making.Williams is “probably one of the most prominent monetary policy experts around,” said Roberto Perli, a former economist at the Fed Board in Washington. “What he gains as president of the New York Fed is that he will have a more active role in the decision-making process.”What he doesn’t have is financial-industry experience that might be useful as New York Fed chief. That’s good for an institution worried about revolving-door optics. But it has also raised questions about whether he’s the right pick to analyze financial markets for signs of stress, seize the bully pulpit when Wall Street excesses build up, or manage in the next crisis.“The history of the New York Fed and the Fed system overall is one of managing financial crises, many of which originate in New York,” said Mark Spindel, an investment manager and co-author of a recent book on the Fed system. “Williams seems oddly at ease with distancing himself from financial markets.”But the 55-year-old Williams has been shaping the Fed’s theoretical debates for years, first as an economist at the Board in Washington and later as Janet Yellen’s research director when she led the San Francisco Fed. In the early 2000’s, he co-authored studies on how monetary policy ought to react to near-zero interest rates that informed the central bank’s crisis-era decisions.Then, as policy normalized, Fed officials used his body of work on neutral rates to justify removing accommodation only slowly. He and his co-author Thomas Laubach had shown that the interest rate which neither stokes nor slows the economy, also called r-star, had fallen. That meant the Fed didn’t have to raise rates as quickly to prevent overheating.“The r-star work was, and is, really important,” Yellen, the Fed chair from 2014 to early 2018, said in an interview. “It ended up being quite fundamental to the way that the committee thought about policy and communicated it.” Yellen is now a distinguished fellow at the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy at the Brookings Institution, which is named after Glenn Hutchins, the private-equity executive who co-chaired the New York Fed search committee that recommended Williams.As New York Fed chief, Williams may exert more influence. New York is always a crucial role, and its importance could be amplified by the fact that Powell could use a Ph.D. economist as a close ally. The Fed chairman is a lawyer by training and a careful listener with a reputation for tapping into the expertise of those around him.Williams’s father was an attorney who analyzed legislation for four California governors. Williams went to the University of California at Berkeley knowing he wanted to follow in his father’s public-policy footsteps. After finishing his bachelor’s degree, Williams pursued a master’s at the London School of Economics and then a doctorate under thesis adviser John Taylor at Stanford University.Williams started his career as a researcher at the Fed Board in Washington, taking a brief break to be a senior economist on Bill Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisers. He moved to San Francisco as a researcher in 2002. Aside from a year spent lecturing at Stanford, he’s been at the Fed’s 12th district ever since, succeeding Yellen as president in 2011.Williams’s insider status hasn’t prevented him from questioning how the central bank operates.Fed policy makers adopted a 2 percent inflation goal formally in 2012, after years of targeting that level unofficially. The rationale is that with low and steady inflation, employers can raise wages and exert some pricing power without spooking consumers, and the economy won’t easily tip into deflation.Along with Boston’s Eric Rosengren and Chicago’s Charles Evans, Williams has been urging his colleagues revisit the magic number -- perhaps moving it higher, perhaps by aiming for an average over time.The logic? If the economy hit a recession with a low neutral rate but higher inflation, it would give the Fed more room to cut the policy rate before they hit zero and run low on ammunition, since the federal funds rate doesn’t subtract out price gains.Williams could see some push-back from his boss: Powell said March 21 it was “not something I see us as needing to urgently address.” But Williams’s promotion could help him to push the conversation about a low-rate future forward. Plus, he’s always viewed it as a longer-run priority -- not something requiring immediate change.“He’s doing the right thing by raising these questions,” said former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers in an interview.— With assistance by Craig Torres, and Rich Miller

2018-03-28T16:21:29.932Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/crypto-community-hub-reddit-disables-bitcoin-payments
Early Bitcoin adopter Reddit stopped accepting payments with the largest digital currency.The social media platform, a popular gathering spot for crypto enthusiasts, last week disabled the option to pay for its premium membership with Bitcoin as it watches how Coinbase Inc.’s Coinbase Commerce platform develops and after there were glitches in Reddit’s system, according to a Reddit board administrator with the user name emoney04.“Yup that’s right. The upcoming Coinbase change, combined with some bugs around the Bitcoin payment option that were affecting purchases for certain users, led us to remove Bitcoin as a payment option,” emoney04 wrote.The move suggests that some merchants may disable Bitcoin payments before deciding whether to switch to Coinbase’s service. It also highlights how Bitcoin continues to struggle to gain mass adoption for payments, as even one of the first adopters bails.Coinbase Commerce will allow merchants to accept Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum and Litecoin payments. Commerce platform Shopify, which was already accepting Bitcoin, is one of the first to start using the service, Coinbase said last month. Other merchants taking cryptocurrencies are Overstock.com Inc., Expedia Inc. and Microsoft Corp.The board administrator said Reddit will also watch demand for Bitcoin payments before deciding whether to re-enable the service.Reddit started accepting Bitcoin payments for its Reddit Gold membership in 2013 through a partnership with Coinbase.

2018-04-02T21:16:51.082Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-02/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jfiqj9xd
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereU.S. stocks just had their worst second-quarter start in a long time as tech continues to get hit and U.S.-China trade tensions remain front and center. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Asian markets look set to come under pressure after U.S. stocks had their worst start to a second quarter since the Great Depression. Tech shares led a tumble in all the main gauges. Fresh presidential criticism of Amazon.com and retaliatory tariffs from China rattled markets as the S&P 500 fell 2.2 percent, dropping below its 200-day moving average, a key technical support level. Treasury yields and the U.S. dollar fluctuated, while the VIX rose to around 24 from just under 20 Thursday. The decline came after Asia and Europe saw thin trading levels with many markets still closed for the Easter holiday.China urged trade talks with the U.S. to prevent greater damage to relations while saying that previously announced retaliatory measures on American imports took effect Monday. The U.S. didn’t respond to China’s March 26 request for consultation on Washington’s steel and aluminum tariffs, the Commerce Ministry said in a statement Monday, adding that officials have widespread public support for tougher measures and repeating Beijing’s stance that disputes should be resolved with dialogue. China previously planned to seek compensation for trade lost because of the U.S. metals actions.Facing persistent trade tensions with China and the U.S., South Korea is deepening ties with Vietnam, which is on course to surpass the U.S. as Korean companies’ second-biggest export market. South Korean President Moon Jae-in is looking to expand trade with Southeast Asia as one way for corporate giants such as Samsung Electronics to diversify production bases and export markets. Seoul sees the U.S. under President Donald Trump as an increasingly demanding and unreliable trade partner, while tensions with China over the U.S. Thaad missile-defense system have dragged on for more than a year.Bitcoin investing is popular in Japan, but the nation has also had several high-profile cryptocurrency heists. Now, the central bank has come up with a rather negative Q&A for those seeking answers on cryptos. The page is called “Let’s think about cryptocurrencies!" and was released on a financial education site run by the Bank of Japan. As bitcoin closed out a dismal quarter, the BOJ raising awareness about crypto risks is unlikely to cheer market bulls. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has previously expressed apprehension about them, and the finance ministers and central bank governors of the Group of 20 nations last month warned that cryptos could destabilize financial markets.The Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to keep its cash rate target unchanged at 1.5% on Tuesday. Bloomberg Economics says growth may push above potential this year, but inflation remains below the central bank’s 2%-3% target range – and says stabilization in mining investment may be delayed until 2019.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-04-02T15:59:58.704Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-02/last-line-of-technical-defense-under-siege-across-risk-assets
Risk assets are under siege, pushing everything from Chinese stocks to copper to cryptocurrencies to the verge of their last technical line of defense -- and beyond.The S&P 500 Index shot through its 200-day moving average Monday, a line of support it held in February and March. The gauge is now down more than 10 percent from its January record.“The reason we’re still concerned is that the 200 DMA is ALSO where the two-year trend-line going back to the early 2016 lows comes in!” Miller Tabak + Co. equity strategist Matthew Maley wrote in an email. “A meaningful break below of the 200 DMA should indeed be important on BOTH a short AND an intermediate-term basis for the stock market.”But that’s far from the only place where technicians are preparing to gaze into the abyss. A pair of U.S. tech titans are trading in technically precarious ranges: Apple Inc.’s about 2 percent above its 200-day moving average, while Alphabet Inc. is trading right on top of this support line.Facebook Inc. broke through this threshold when the Cambridge Analytica scandal exploded, and has closed below its 200-day moving average ever since. But most of the technology heavyweights are still well above this technical level thanks to their steady advance over the past year. Amazon.com Inc.’s still trading above its 100-day moving average, as are Microsoft Corp. and NVIDIA Corp. Netflix Inc. and Intel Corp. also opened above their 50-day means on Monday.President Donald Trump’s renewed focus on trade with China has increased pressure on firms listed on the Chinese mainland. His plan to impose tariffs on the world’s second-largest economy caused the Shanghai Shenzhen CSI 300 Index to plunge, and it remains stuck below its 200-day moving average. A Guggenheim exchange-traded fund that holds Chinese tech stocks are also closing in on that level.Bitcoin bulls are probably happy to see the calendar flip to April from March. Last month, the cryptocurrency’s 50-day moving average pierced the 100-day, while the price plunged below $7,000 to breach the 200-day moving average near the end of the first quarter. March was the worst month for bitcoin since 2011.Europe also hasn’t escaped the trend. Ten-year German bund yields more than doubled -- albeit from a low base -- in the first half of the first quarter. Their steady retreat since Feb. 8 has put them on a collision course with the 200-day moving average, which was encountered last Wednesday amid signs that growth across Europe is decelerating.Italy’s FTSE MIB Index has been oscillating above and below its 200-day moving average line since the March general election, amid elevated economic uncertainty and political paralysis. Short and longer-term moving averages appear to be converging for this equity benchmark.The fact that the euro-yen cross continues to trade below its 200-daily moving average -- a “technically critical’ threshold -- is a sign that risk aversion lingers in markets, according to Scotiabank’s chief FX strategist Shaun Osborne.Copper is supposed to be bellwether for global activity. The commodity barely managed to end March above its 200-day moving average after holding below the threshold over the past week for the first time since 2016.— With assistance by Paul Dobson

2018-03-27T01:38:14.005Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-27/bitcoin-bounces-back-above-8-000-level-after-earlier-slump
Bitcoin swung between gains and losses around the $8,000 mark as investors digested the latest developments in a widening social-media crackdown on digital tokens.The largest cryptocurrency traded at $7,964 as of 8:39 a.m. in New York, according to consolidated Bloomberg pricing. Twitter Inc. confirmed on Monday it’s banning advertisements for initial coin offerings and token sales on its platform, joining Facebook Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google on the list of tech giants keeping cryptos at bay. Rival coins Ripple, Ether and Litecoin fell.    Since reaching a peak of almost $20,000 in mid-December at the height of the cryptocurrency frenzy, Bitcoin has lost more than half of its value as investors weigh the future of the nascent industry amid intensifying scrutiny. Facebook banned crypto ads in January and Google said it would outlaw such ads starting in June.Bitcoin earlier jumped as high as $8,265.87 following a decline on Monday of 8.4 percent. The digital token has now dropped by about a quarter in March alone.Also on Monday, Cboe Global Markets Inc., the first U.S. exchange to list Bitcoin futures last year, prodded U.S. securities regulators to consider approving crypto exchange-traded funds in a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission.While Bitcoin futures trading volumes can’t yet support ETFs, Cboe said it is encouraged by their growth trajectory and that there are “reliable and robust” ways to value Bitcoin and potentially other digital assets.Terminal users can read more in these other Bloomberg stories:Twitter Joins Facebook, Google in Banning Crypto Coin Sale AdsICOs Can Wait: Venture Capital Surges Into Crypto StartupsBitcoin Pop Culture Moment Fades as Craze Attracts RegulatorsWhy Governments Might Join the Cryptocurrency Craze: QuickTake

2018-04-02T13:00:17.617Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-04-02/rational-markets-theory-keeps-running-into-irrational-humans
To many young people, the idea of efficient financial markets -- the idea that, in the words of economist Eugene Fama, “At any point in time, the actual price of a security will be a good estimate of its intrinsic value” -- probably seems like a joke. The financial crisis of 2008, the bursting of the housing bubble, and gyrations in markets from gold to Bitcoin to Chinese stocks have put paid, at least for now, to the idea that prices are guided by the steady hand of rationality. The theory won Fama an economics Nobel Prize in 2013, but he shared it with Robert Shiller, whose research poked significant holes in the idea decades ago.But believe it or not, there was a time when efficient markets theory occupied a place of honor in the worldview of economists and financial professionals alike. This is chronicled in my colleague Justin Fox’s excellent book, “The Myth of the Rational Market: A History of Risk, Reward, and Delusion on Wall Street.” Though Fama did empirical research that seemed to support market efficiency, at its core the idea is based on fairly simple logic -- if people consistently buy assets for more than its fundamental value, they’ll lose money. If people lose money, they’ll be pushed out of the market, and only investors who tend to pay the right price -- often referred to as “rational arbitrageurs” in economics papers -- will remain. Economist Milton Friedman legendarily stated this idea in 1953 when he wrote:People who argue that speculation is destabilizing seldom realize that this is largely equivalent to saying that speculators lose money, since speculation can be destabilizing in general only if speculators on the average sell when [an asset] is low in price and buy when it is high.This logic is simple and compelling, but it doesn’t have to be true. In the real world, people who trade based on fundamentals don’t have infinite resources -- short-selling on the expectation that a stock will fall in price is expensive and risky, borrowing shares to place those bets costs money and financial backers can withdraw their money before a trade pays off. Because of these limits, trading against a mispricing isn’t true arbitrage, because, as economist and investor John Maynard Keynes is said to have quipped, “The market can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent.”In the wake of the 1987 stock market crash, economists pushed back strongly against the idea of efficient markets. Keynes’s remark was formalized into economic theory by J. Bradford DeLong, Andrei Shleifer, Lawrence Summers and Robert Waldmann in 1989. The idea was that so-called noise traders -- a coordinated herd of investors who either overpay or underpay for a financial asset -- can act in concert to push prices out of line with fundamentals. With their limited resources, rational arbitrageurs can’t always risk pushing back against the irrational tide -- sometimes, like a movie character who throws down his shotgun and runs when faced with an onrushing gang of zombies, rational traders can end up moving in the same direction as the speculators. When this happens, the noise traders can actually make money and remain in the market, defying Friedman’s formulation.It’s a compelling idea. But it’s very hard to test because it’s hard to observe rational arbitrageurs in action. Typically, no one knows which trades are placed by the rational folks, and which are by misinformed speculators.A recent paper, however, does something along those lines. In “ETF Arbitrage and Return Predictability,” economists David Brown, Shaun Davies and Matthew Ringgenberg take advantage of the way exchange-traded funds are structured. An ETF typically has a designated set of traders called “authorized participants” (APs) who are able to carry out arbitrage between the fund and its underlying assets, whether stocks, bonds or commodities. When the price changes, APs respond by buying and selling the underlying assets, and by either creating or redeeming shares of the ETF, until the two values come back into line. They are, by design, rational arbitrageurs.Generally, an ETF’s APs do a good job of keeping the fund’s value close to the value of the assets it owns. Many studies confirm this. But Brown et al. find that APs’ arbitrage coincides with a deviation of asset values from their fundamentals.When traders other than the APs push around the price, the changes in the prices of the assets tend to reverse themselves over the subsequent months. Anyone watching the APs’ arbitrage trades -- which are public record, since they involve the creation and destruction of ETF shares -- can then bet that the recent rise or fall in the price of the assets underlying the ETF will be reversed. And make a lot of money. Under efficient markets theory, that’s not supposed to happen.Now, the APs’ job is to equalize the price of the ETF and its assets, not to make sure the asset prices themselves reflect fundamentals. But the fact that they exist implies that there are at least some rational arbitrageurs in the market. And the fact that ETF asset prices have predictable reversals implies that rational arbitrageurs aren’t trying very hard to correct prices that are out of line with long-term fundamental values.In other words, even markets with some rational participants can behave irrationally. Speculation can move prices around for irrational reasons, and rational traders often either can’t or won’t bother to correct them. However, it’s worth noting that the effect is less pronounced in 2012-2016 than in 2007-2011, suggesting the possibility that this particular market inefficiency may have been a temporary phenomenon.Efficient markets theory never really fits the facts, but it never quite dies, either.To contact the author of this story:          Noah Smith     at nsmith150@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-04-01T22:24:07.323Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-01/asian-stocks-set-for-muted-start-to-second-quarter-markets-wrap
The deepening rout in once high-flying technology shares sent U.S. stocks tumbling to start the second quarter, as fresh presidential criticism of Amazon.com and retaliatory tariffs from China rattled markets. Gold rose on haven demand.The S&P 500 Index closed at the lowest level since early February and finished below its average price for the past 200 days for the first time since June 2016. The index is now lower by more than 10 percent from its January record. The Cboe Volatility Index jumped to 23.Selling was heaviest in technology stocks. The Nasdaq 100 Index lost 2.9 percent as investors continued to offload some of the bull market’s biggest gainers. Amazon, up 50 percent in the past year, sank after Donald Trump renewed his attack on the online retailer. Netflix slid 5 percent, while chipmakers in the S&P 500 plunged 4.3 percent thanks to Intel’s worst day in two years. Bonds erased declines and gold spiked higher as the equity selling picked up steam.“This is definitely a flight to safety type of market,” said Peter Jankovskis, co-chief investment officer at Oakbrook Investments. “You’re seeing people coming out of the stocks that had been performing well. There’d been various stories that momentum was extended in the market place, and I would say today’s activity supports that trying to unwind a bit.”Read more about the equity selloff:S&P 500 Pierces 200-Day Moving Average as Last Defense Gives WaySiege Mentality Takes Hold as Markets Punish Global Risk AssetsTrump’s Amazon Tweets Denting His Stock Market Bragging RightsQuarter Begins as Investors Ask One Thing: Is Nowhere Safe?Stocks Lose Critical Buyer at Worst Time as Selloff Picks UpTrump and renewed trade concerns roiled U.S. financial markets to start the second quarter after the worst three months for global stocks in more than two years. The risk-off tone comes just two weeks before earnings season starts, with investors still anticipating a strong showing even as signs have emerged that the synchronized global growth story is faltering just as the Federal Reserve steps up its tightening.“The US markets will likely serve as a focal point as investors stateside and elsewhere consider what tact the administration will take toward trade in the weeks ahead and what effects it could have on the US economy and the economies of its trading partners,” John Stoltzfus, the chief investment strategist of Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a note to clients Monday.“The U.S. economy is showing a lot of symptoms of being late-cycle,” said Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “I’m looking for a downturn in maybe late next year or early 2020, with the fiscal stimulus they’re getting from the White House giving us a little bit of late-cycle expansion, but nothing that changes the game plan.”Terminal users can read more in our markets live blog.Here are some key events coming up this week:These are the main moves in markets:— With assistance by Samuel Potter, Adam Haigh, and Todd White

2018-03-26T15:22:56.046Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/solid-gold-casts-of-nelson-mandela-s-hands-sell-for-bitcoin
It’s one of the more unusual deals in the art world. After more than a decade, an Alberta businessman has finally found a buyer for his prized collection of gold castings of Nelson Mandela’s hand. The final price? Ten million dollars -- in bitcoin.Attempts by Malcolm Duncan, formerly of South Africa, to sell the hands back in 2007 were scuppered by controversy over provenance and a possible missing charitable donation. This time he’s had better luck, albeit with an unusual buyer.Making the gold castings of Mandela’s hand.Little information is available about Arbitrade, an Ontario-based cryptocurrency company, something Chairman Len Schutzman says is about to change.The company is “weeks away” from doing an initial coin offering and is building a facility in Waterloo, Ontario, to mine its own cryptocurrencies and plans to trade others. Its key selling point, he says, is that it will back all its virtual coins with some percentage of physical metal -- including gold.Nelson Mandela’s solid gold hand would seem to fit the bill, although as a general rule Schutzman says he’ll seek to acquire gold bars or coins rather than art. Weighing 20 pounds, the value of the gold is a fraction of the artifacts’ purchase price. Their real value is one of publicity, as a means of educating millennials about Mandela -- and Arbitrade -- through a global “Golden Hands of Nelson Mandela” tour the company plans to launch, he said.The hands aren’t the first examples of “Mandela Art” to prove tricky to buyers and sellers. After the anti-apartheid revolutionary was released from prison, thousands of pieces of art bearing his name began flooding the market. Various scandals, including allegations of forgery, put a stop to the deluge.Under Mandela’s own orders, many works were destroyed and the subject remains a touchy one in South Africa to this day. Duncan believes he owns the only four surviving casts of Mandela’s hand, palm and fist, tucked into bespoke imbuia wood boxes. “He cut his thumb quite badly on Robben Island, his right thumb, and you can see it,” Duncan said.Mandela’s hand castingPhotographs show Mandela sitting for the castings, which were made by a defunct division of Harmony Gold Mining Co. in 2002. As a condition of being allowed to buy the artifacts, Duncan says he paid double the 1.8 million-rand purchase price with the understanding Harmony would give half to Mandela’s charities. Whether that happened remains unclear.Harmony has “supplied Mr. Duncan with the necessary paperwork verifying the provenance as requested by his attorneys,” Harmony Investor Relations Manager Lauren Fourie said by email, declining to comment when asked about the status of the donation.So far, Duncan has been paid a bitcoin deposit that has been converted to $50,000. The rest is due to be delivered in quarterly installments of at least $2 million per extremity, starting April 30.“They take possession when I have the dollar amount in the bank,” says Duncan, who has insisted Arbitrade guarantee the value in U.S. dollars, and handle the conversion. “At two-and-a-quarter million at a time, they take one hand at a time.”— With assistance by Paul Burkhardt

2018-03-27T14:48:05.106Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-27/bitcoin-s-a-pretty-good-guide-to-animal-spirits-it-turns-out
Bitcoin may not cut it as a currency in Mark Carney’s eyes, but it has at least one other use: it’s a pretty good measure of animal spirits.There’s a remarkable similarity in chart movements of the digital token and the forward price to earnings ratio of stocks in the S&P 500 Index. The valuation measure peaked on the very same day as the cryptocurrency back in December, and hit a low days after Bitcoin bottomed out.“The price of Bitcoin is worth watching,” Morgan Stanley analysts including Michael Wilson wrote in a report Monday. “While we do not expect this relationship to continue to hold so tightly we do think it will be hard for price-to-earnings to move significantly higher or lower without a commensurate move in the digital currency.”Morgan Stanley notes that Bitcoin has been leading the way, making it a useful indicator. It bounced off its 200-day moving average (according to Bloomberg generic pricing) just a week before the S&P did on Monday. And the correlation between the earnings ratio and cryptocurrency has nudged higher after turning positive in the middle of last year.Bitcoin plunged more than 40 percent this year and trades at $8,063, while the valuation gauge is at the lowest in almost two years.— With assistance by Lucy Meakin

2018-03-29T22:35:43.552Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-29/stocks-in-japan-set-for-gains-after-u-s-rebound-markets-wrap
Asian stocks followed their U.S. counterparts higher on Friday, finishing the quarter on a positive note after waves of volatility shook investor confidence in the synchronous global expansion that proved so profitable last year.The dollar slipped in subdued trading, with much of Asia joining the U.S. and Europe in market closures Friday. Stocks in Tokyo and Seoul rose, while those in Shanghai were little changed. The S&P 500 Index closed higher Thursday and 10-year Treasury yields fell below 2.75 percent after data showed U.S. consumer spending lagged behind income growth for a second month in February.Investors were still awaiting details on U.S. plans for tariffs on China, amid concerns about an escalation in trade tensions that could disrupt global supply chains and hurt the outlook for corporate earnings. But a Trump administration announcement will come too late to affect major markets Friday, given the closures. Many European countries are also out on Monday.“Let’s get out of this quarter and take a breather,” said Rich Guerrini, the chief executive officer of PNC Investments. “We need some market stability at this point and hopefully we get to some calmer waters.”Ben Laidler, global equity strategist at HSBC Securities, discusses first-quarter volatility.Elsewhere, Bitcoin fluctuated around $7,000.Terminal users can read more in our markets live blog.These are the main moves in markets:

2018-03-30T08:20:22.038Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-30/telegram-raises-1-7-billion-in-coin-offering-may-seek-more
Telegram Group Inc., an encrypted messaging app seeking to create its own cryptocurrency, has increased the proceeds from the world’s largest initial offering to $1.7 billion, according to a regulatory filing.Telegram raised $850 million from 94 investors in March in addition to $850 million it gained in February, and “may pursue one or more subsequent offerings,” the British Virgin Islands-registered firm said in a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday.“Raising the planned amount is a success for Telegram, given that the Bitcoin decline in recent weeks made investors more cautious toward crypto-assets," said Gennady Zhilyaev, a former executive of Templeton Emerging Markets Group in Russia, who now invests in virtual currencies and initial coin offerings.The company, founded by self-exiled Russian Pavel Durov, plans to use the ICO proceeds to develop the Telegram Open Network blockchain, which includes the cryptocurrency Gram. It aims to enable transaction speeds faster than the Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains, and may seek to compete with Visa Inc. and Mastercard Inc., according to Telegram documents.Interest in the Telegram ICO has recently helped the company surpass the threshold of 200 million monthly active users, “with over 700,000 new users signing up each day.” Telegram admitted it had connection failures in Europe and the former Soviet Union Thursday, blaming the interruptions on its data center provider.In Russia, Telegram is under threat of being blocked after it refused to provide encryption keys to the Federal Security Service to comply with legislation on fighting terrorism.

2018-03-29T04:10:54.710Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-29/thailand-to-regulate-digital-coins-from-april-to-guard-investors
Thailand will impose rules on cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings from April to bolster investor protection, the military-run nation’s Securities and Exchange Commission said.The regulations are set to be enforced in about three weeks, and Thailand is able to move comparatively quickly on tightening oversight in part because a military administration is in power, the commission’s Secretary General Rapee Sucharitakul said in an interview in Bangkok on Tuesday."This is a very specialized market and it’s not for ordinary people," he said.Offerings of digital coins as well as trading platforms will fall under the regulatory framework, with more details to be unveiled once the legislation receives royal endorsement. The crypto-economy currently operates in a legal gray area in Thailand, whereas Asian neighbors such as China and Indonesia have adopted a tougher stance.Read what the world’s governments are saying about cryptocurrenciesThe framework will impose requirements for disclosures and warnings but the regulator doesn’t want to drive coin offerings underground or abroad, Rapee said. The laws are also expected to frame applicable tax rules.In 2017, 46 percent of token startups either failed after their ICOs or weren’t able to complete funding, according to Bitcoin.com, which drew on statistics gathered by website TokenData. So far this year, 50 of 340 completed ICOs have failed, according to TokenData.Ookbee Co., Jaymart Pcl and Omise Co. are among the Thai companies using digital coins to help fund expansion, leaving the regulator playing catch up.Separately, Rapee said the commission’s other upcoming initiatives include:Ensuring Thai investors make sound investment decisions is crucial as the country’s population ages, Rapee said.

2018-03-26T13:17:20.551Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/bitcoin-approaches-8-000-level-as-march-slump-accelerates
Bitcoin began the week on a down note, declining as much as 8.7 percent, pushing the biggest cryptocurrency’s decline for March to about 25 percent.Twitter Inc. confirmed Monday that it’s banning advertisements for initial coin offerings and token sales on its social-media platform. The decision comes after Facebook Inc. banned cryptocurrency ads in January and Alphabet Inc.’s Google said it would ban such ads starting in June, as part of a broader effort to crack down on deceptive and misleading advertising on their platforms.After reaching a record high of almost $20,000 in December, Bitcoin has slumped about 60 percent as investors reconsider the prospects of the digital currency and regulators around the world increase scrutiny.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sent a number of subpoenas earlier this month to ICO teams it suspects are breaking securities regulations, and it has warned since July that some of the offerings may be breaking securities regulations. Twitter said on March 7 that it was implementing measures to prevent crypto scams.For more on cryptocurrencies, check out the Decrypted  podcast:For more on cryptocurrencies:Twitter Joins Facebook, Google in Banning Crypto Coin Sale AdsICOs Can Wait: Venture Capital Surges Into Crypto StartupsBitcoin Pop Culture Moment Fades as Craze Attracts RegulatorsWhy Governments Might Join the Cryptocurrency Craze: QuickTake

2018-03-28T15:00:11.354Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/-cryptodad-regulator-catches-some-twitter-heat
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo has blown up on Twitter recently, gaining tens of thousands of followers almost overnight after enthusiastically testifying in February to Congress about digital currencies. The balding, bespectacled 58-year-old regulator now has 49,000 Twitter followers and is regularly lauded in memes that call him “Bitcoin Jesus” and “one of us! one of us!” He’s even embraced the slightly dorky hashtag given to him by the Bitcoin masses: #cryptodad.His new-found fame has also come with a downside, as he's made some serious, unforced errors trying to be active on social media. He had his account impersonated by people, making it look as if he's asking for crypto donations for the government. A few weeks later, he inadvertently drew attention to a potential violation of an open meeting law when he tweeted a picture of a Republicans-only meeting he had about coordinating swaps rules. Apart from causing strife with his CFTC colleagues and Democrats on Capitol Hill, the Twitter circus around Giancarlo's posts is causing some investor advocates to worry that it may encourage people to buy into a risky product few of them understand.A former executive at a swaps brokerage, Giancarlo has taken more of an interest in the crypto world than other Washington regulators. His agency allowed the trading of Bitcoin futures late last year, a move Giancarlo credits with helping stabilize the market and reduce the coins’ wild price swings from record highs.Giancarlo's Twitter issues began cropping up after he testified before the Senate Banking Committee on Feb. 6, when his account was mimicked by scammers. Using his picture and a Twitter handle similar to his, they solicited Bitcoin donations. Although some of the bogus accounts have been taken down, at least one is still around. “NO ONE should send me any donation or contribution of any kind in any form, currency or coin,'' Giancarlo tweeted on Feb. 9.A couple of weeks later, Giancarlo reposted a seemingly anodyne tweet of a photo of a meeting he hosted to discuss swaps rules with members of the Securities and Exchange Commission. “We're off to great start!'' he noted. That was news to CFTC Commissioner Rostin Behnam, a Democrat who read the posting and felt he'd been excluded from high-level talks. To him, the photo clearly showed that Giancarlo had invited only the CFTC's Republican commissioner and two Republicans on the SEC, including Chairman Jay Clayton. Behnam says he has always been open to working with his Republican colleagues on policy matters. Face-to-face meetings, he adds, are vital to cooperation and comity in a way that the online world is not. “I am concerned that, as we increasingly forgive and forget process and instead engage through 'tweets' and 'likes,' we risk losing opportunities to collaborate,'' Behnam says. “It is unfortunate that I only learned [of the event’s details] after the fact through a tweet from the chairman’s account.''Democrats in both the House and Senate, citing Giancarlo's tweet, are asking whether the Republican get-together violated a federal open meeting law, known as the Government in the Sunshine Act. It generally requires that agency deliberations be held in public when a majority of the commission is present. Because the CFTC has only three of its five seats filled, that means that a meeting with two commissioners can trigger the law. A remaining issue is whether Giancarlo and Republican Commissioner Brian Quintenz discussed policy matters during the Feb. 27 event. Both say they did not.The CFTC general counsel’s office, in a response to Bloomberg News, said that the Sunshine Act rules weren't triggered by the meeting because interactions “were limited to factual or clarifying questions, such as timelines for completion of rule proposals.”Erica Richardson, a CFTC spokeswoman, says Giancarlo “views Twitter as a valuable platform to reach diverse audiences on customer education.'' He recently got his account officially verified by the platform. Richardson adds, “he will continue to use Twitter to drive followers to the CFTC’s educational materials.” As for concerns that Giancarlo"s Twitter is encouraging investors to buy into Bitcoin, Richardson said that isn't the case. “The Chairman has tweeted a whopping total of 12 times since his testimony to the Senate Banking Committee that garnered such interest in the CFTC's work on cryptocurrency," Richardson said. "Nine of these tweets have been about investor protection and the proactive regulatory work the agency is doing on FinTech and cryptocurrency."She declined to comment specifically about the flap with Behnam. A person familiar with the matter from the chairman's office said Behnam's staff had been briefed in January on the agencies’ plans to coordinate swaps rules.Senators Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, both Democrats, demanded an explanation in a March 6 letter to Giancarlo and Clayton. The meeting, they wrote, “sends an unfortunate and perhaps unlawful message of exclusion and reluctance to consider additional viewpoints.”The next day, at a House Appropriations subcommittee meeting, Giancarlo insisted that the meeting was legal and didn't fall under the Sunshine Act because no substantive business was discussed. The CFTC's general counsel, he added, made sure there were no violations. “I'm almost uncomfortable with calling it a meeting; it was a briefing,'' he told Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat.Giancarlo also disputed DeLauro's contention that the meeting was partisan, telling her that Behnam “was briefed on all the issues discussed at the meeting in advance.” That explanation doesn't quite jibe with Behnam's assertion that he learned about the meeting through Twitter. Nor does it fully comport with Giancarlo's own tweet about the meeting, in which he says the meeting was “to discuss'' making the CFTC and SEC's rules better-aligned.Public Citizen, a left-leaning advocacy group, has asked the CFTC's inspector general to investigate whether the meeting was in violation of the Sunshine Act. The group could also sue to enforce the law in federal court. SEC chief Clayton declined to comment through a spokesman. Clayton hasn't shared any of his thoughts about the meeting on Twitter. That's because he doesn't have an account.(Updated with comment from CFTC spokeswoman in 9th paragraph)

2018-03-27T17:01:52.442Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-27/fed-s-bostic-has-a-message-on-cryptocurrencies-don-t-do-it
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Raphael Bostic has a short message about cryptocurrencies like bitcoin: Avoid!“Don’t do it,’’ Bostic told an audience in Atlanta Tuesday at the Hope Global Forums annual meeting, which promotes financial inclusion, young entrepreneurs and affordable housing. “They are speculative markets. They are not currency. If you have money you really need, do not put it in these markets.’’Bostic, who took over as Atlanta Fed president last June, was more blunt but reflected a general skepticism among Fed policy makers toward cryptocurrencies. In January, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said bitcoin is “not money-like at the moment,’’ adding “you’re swimming with all the sharks in the world because of all the anonymity.’’Raphael BosticFederal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Neel Kashkari said in December: “I think of it a little bit like Beanie Babies. If they were jumping in price by 1,000 times, or $10,000 each, what would we make of Beanie Babies being priced where they are?”

2018-03-28T20:56:30.616Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/your-evening-briefing
Want to receive this post in your inbox every afternoon? Sign up here. In the market for a new job? Truckers are paid especially well these days. Saudi Arabia may soon be hiring lots of new solar workers. Or if you're a gun enthusiast looking for an occasional volunteer gig, there’s a small town in New Mexico you might want to try. —Sam SchulzTech  weighed on stocks again,  volatility spiked, and the Facebook selloff  cut billions from top mutual funds. Tesla shares  fell again and its bonds are  now in free fall amid questions about a deadly crash in California. It’s not yet clear whether the Tesla's Autopilot system were engaged, but rival carmakers are  warning about cutting corners.Kim Jong Un’s message for Trump: China is back on our side. In China, President Xi Jinping told Kim that China has made a “strategic choice” to have friendly ties with North Korea that will “remain unchanged under any circumstances.” The surprise meeting ensures China’s interests are protected when Kim meets with Trump, and gives North Korea an insurance policy if talks collapse.Why is billionaire GOP megadonor Robert Mercer secretly moonlighting as a small-town New Mexico cop? To get something that not even the richest gun enthusiast can buy: a concealed-carry permit good anywhere in the country. And he’s hardly the only rich guy doing so.The U.S. Air Force could lose a third of the F-35s it plans to buy if it can’t slash upkeep costs, according to an internal analysis obtained by Bloomberg. The Pentagon has said it has costs under control, but this underscores the challenges of maintaining its fleet.This week's expulsions of Russian diplomats are "unlikely to hurt enough to make Putin behave," write the editors of Bloomberg View. "There are many ways to dial up the pressure, including stronger enforcement of the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention and moves to block Russia's abuse of Interpol," plus freezing corrupt officials' assets and banning visas for them.The founder of Binance, the world's biggest cryptocurrency exchange, has had a meteoric rise. But now he and a big swath of the crypto trading complex are facing new threats. It doesn't help that Binance's know-your-customer policies are among the industry’s least rigorous. Underscoring crypto's uphill battle for acceptance: You can no longer pay for a premium Reddit membership in Bitcoin.People obsessed with their houses are now getting them reproduced in painstaking miniature. They're not quite dollhouses for adults; there are no dolls involved. They're not even proper architectural models—or at least, they don't serve as such. They're just there for you to display and admire if you're so fond of your home that you want to take it in all at once, from its pediments to its decor.

2018-03-28T21:22:32.874Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jfbljbqo
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereThe latest country to meet with North Korea may be, of all places, Japan, while tech stocks once again weigh on U.S. equity gauges. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Kim Jong Un’s administration is seeking diplomatic talks with Japan, Asahi reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. The meetings may take place in Pyongyang after the summit with the U.S. The yen fell to the lowest level in two weeks versus the dollar. Of course, a fiscal year-end squeeze may be affecting the pair as well.Technology stocks remained front and center during the U.S. session. Amazon.com came into focus, stealing the limelight from Facebook after Axios reported that U.S. President Donald Trump is “obsessed” with regulating the e-commerce behemoth. The S&P 500 fell, but is still hanging just above its 200-day moving average, a significant technical level. Stocks in the U.S. have been struggling to hold gains toward the end of the session lately. The Cboe's VIX index remained below 25, but not by much. The U.S. dollar rose, while 10-year Treasury yields were in the 2.78% area.Indonesia’s new central bank governor knows a thing or two about crisis management. That’s about to come in handy. In October last year, Perry Warjiyo sensed a new calamity around the corner, warning that the tightening of U.S. monetary policy meant trouble ahead for Southeast Asia’s largest economy. Fast forward five months and the rupiah has tanked against the dollar, foreign investors are ditching Indonesian stocks and bonds, and the central bank was last month forced to tap $4 billion of foreign reserves to defend the currency. He’ll take the reins at Indonesia’s central bank in May as the economy struggles for traction even after eight rate cuts, and as a trade war further threatens its nascent recovery.The U.S. economy grew in the fourth quarter at a faster pace than last estimated, helped by an upward revision to household spending on services and a smaller drag from inventories, according to Commerce Department data released Wednesday. The report also included the first look at the health of corporate America toward the end of 2017. The gain in fourth- quarter profits from a year earlier, together with lower corporate taxes following the tax overhaul signed by President Donald Trump late last year, bodes well for business investment and employment. Separately, China’s economic outlook remains robust, according to the earliest indicators for March, and economists have run some numbers of Trump's China threats.Traders face a tricky Thursday. Volatility remains elevated as markets swing up and down with abandon. The MSCI All-World Index of global stocks is poised to snap a seven-quarter winning streak -- its longest such stretch of gains since 1997 -- while global bonds are set for their first decline in currency neutral terms since 2016. There will be a smattering of data to take note of, including Japanese retail trade, Australian private sector credit and Vietnamese GDP. Chinese earnings season rolls on with Bank of China and CNOOC among the major releases of interest. Some 63% of the region's bourses, by market cap, will be open Friday when the overwhelming majority of the world's equity desks will be shut. China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan will stand alone as the only four $1 trillion+ stock markets trading on the final day of the week.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Sho Chandra, Stephanie Hoi-Nga Wong, Karlis Salna, and Tassia Sipahutar

2018-03-26T17:06:18.487Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/twitter-joins-facebook-google-in-banning-crypto-coin-sale-ads
Twitter Inc. is joining Facebook and Google in banning advertisements for initial coin offerings and token sales on its social-media platform.“Advertisement of Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) and token sales will be prohibited globally,” a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement Monday. “We know that this type of content is often associated with deception and fraud, both organic and paid, and are proactively implementing a number of signals to prevent these types of accounts from engaging with others in a deceptive manner.”The decision comes after Facebook Inc. banned cryptocurrency ads in January and Alphabet Inc.’s Google said it would ban such ads starting in June, as part of a broader effort to crack down on deceptive and misleading advertising on their platforms. Social-media platforms are keeping cryptos away as regulators cast an increasingly wary eye on the sector globally.Initial coin offering funding is soaring even as regulators tighten graspSource: CoinDeskThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sent a number of subpoenas earlier this month to ICO teams it suspects are breaking securities regulations, and it has warned since July that some of the offerings may be breaking securities regulations. Twitter said on March 7 that it was implementing measures to prevent crypto scams.Cryptocurrency exchanges and wallet services ads will be limited to those that are provided by a public company listed on major stock markets, and in Japan, these will be limited to crypto exchanges regulated by the nation’s Financial Services Agency, the Twitter spokesperson said.Crypto ad bans on major social-media platforms has weighed on the cryptocurrency market. Bitcoin is sliding 6 percent today, approaching the $8,000 level, and is down more than 50 percent from an all time high of almost $20,000 in December.Paid search sends less than one percent of traffic to cryptocurrency exchange sites, so the effect of crypto ad bans may be limited, according to research by website SimilarWeb, published Monday.— With assistance by Selina Wang

2018-03-29T14:17:33.091Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-29/elon-musk-might-control-tesla
Programming note: Money Stuff will be off tomorrow, back on Monday.Tesla.Does Elon Musk control Tesla Inc.? Colloquially speaking, sure he does: He is Tesla's chief executive officer, the chairman of its board and its largest shareholder. He is also its co-founder, even though he didn't found it, which is a hard trick to pull off at a company that you don't control.But there is also a narrower question, which is: Is Elon Musk the controlling shareholder of Tesla? That is less obvious. He owns about 22 percent of the stock, which is rather less than a majority, and it's all just normal stock, with no super-voting rights or anything. This narrower question matters because, under Delaware law (Tesla is a Delaware company), there are limits on what a controlling shareholder can do to enrich himself at the expense of a company that he controls. For instance, when Tesla acquired SolarCity Corp. in 2016, when Musk was SolarCity's chairman and largest shareholder (and his cousin was its CEO), and when SolarCity was financially troubled and needed to be bailed out by someone, that looked, to a lot of people, like kind of an awkward transaction. But Delaware law does not have a category for "kind of an awkward transaction." It has basically two relevant categories: If Musk was the controlling shareholder of Tesla, and caused Tesla to buy SolarCity, then a judge will review the transaction for "entire fairness" and, if he finds that the process or price was unfair, he can award damages for shareholders against Musk and the directors. But if Musk was not the controlling shareholder -- if he was just a CEO who happened to own some shares, and who was answerable to the board of directors and shareholders -- then the board's decision to buy SolarCity is subject to "business judgment" review, which basically means that the board can do whatever it wants. (Also even if he was the controlling shareholder, he could have avoided entire fairness review "if at the outset of a self-dealing transaction the controlling stockholder effectively relinquished control over the outcome to an independent committee of disinterested directors and a nonwaivable, fully informed vote of a majority of the minority stockholders.")So is he the controlling shareholder? Yesterday a Delaware judge ruled on a motion to dismiss a shareholder lawsuit over the SolarCity deal and decided that it's a "close call" but that Musk might have controlled Tesla, so the lawsuit can go forward. The reasons for Musk's control are all the sort of obvious things: He owns a lot of shares, not a majority but enough to sway the vote; he dominates the board of directors and, in particular, dominated the board's discussion of the proposed SolarCity deal (bringing it to the board three times, and curiously never discussing the possibility of buying another solar company instead of SolarCity); he "has demonstrated a willingness to facilitate the ouster of senior management when displeased"; and he is central to the company's business, raising money for it and acting as its public face and authoring its "Master Plan." (And while Tesla did require a majority of the non-Musk shareholders to approve the deal, and allowed independent directors to negotiate the price -- which I thought was rather good governance, considering -- Musk was fully involved in the board decisions about whether to do the deal.) You can't really object too much to that conclusion. Intuitively, Tesla is Musk's company, while also being a public company, and using a public company you control to bail out another public company that you also control seems like the sort of thing that controlling-shareholder rules are supposed to be suspicious of.Still it's a little weird. Musk is the charismatic founder-CEO-visionary of Tesla, sure. But he owns 22 percent of the shares, with 22 percent of the vote. Plenty of other tech-company founder-CEO-visionaries have found much stronger ways to formalize their perpetual control. Mark Zuckerberg owns about 16 percent of the shares of Facebook Inc., but he controls almost 60 percent of the vote, and almost got the company to give him voting control forever even if he sells more of his stock. Evan Spiegel and Robert Murphy are the charismatic founder-visionaries of Snap Inc.; they own less than 40 percent of the stock between them, but control more than 88 percent of the vote. Meanwhile, just being a founder-CEO-visionary who dominates the board, has the ideas, and is the public face of the company is not necessarily enough to keep control, as Travis Kalanick can tell you. The voting power usually doesn't matter, when things are good for the founder-CEO-visionary, but when it matters it matters.There seem to be two models of governance in large technology companies run by founder-visionaries: There is the founder-visionary-CEO as perpetual owner and controlling shareholder, who jealously guards his rights so that he can't be unseated by insurgent shareholders or directors, and there is the founder-visionary-CEO who actually does give shareholders a vote, and who relies on his charisma and vision to keep the shareholders and directors in line. Those models often come to more or less the same place, but they don't always; Musk has to wake up every day and persuade his shareholders and directors that his charismatic vision is the right one, in a way that Zuckerberg just doesn't. It's a little rough on Musk that he's not actually the controlling shareholder and the law treats him like he is anyway.In other Tesla news, its bonds are cratering. "You can see quickly that Tesla is singularly unsuited to using debt," wrote Aswath Damodaran back in August, when it was issuing debt. But "bond investors pretty much ignored the carmaker’s prolific cash burn and repeated failures to meet production targets and lent it $1.8 billion at record-low interest rates." I guess investors saw the unsuitability slowly: The bonds "plunged to a low of 86 cents on the dollar" yesterday, and Moody's Investors Service downgraded them to a Caa1 rating this week. I have to say that as I spend time this month reading financial-crisis anniversary pieces, I cannot get that worked up about a low-junk-rated money-losing company's bonds trading down to a 7.8 percent yield. As these things go, that's still pretty good.A warning shot.How are things at Deutsche Bank AG? Oh great, great, except that it has been widely reported that Chairman Paul Achleitner has grown tired of Chief Executive Officer John Cryan and is openly searching for his replacement. Yesterday Cryan sent out a staff memo saying that he is "absolutely committed" to staying, which is not quite the question that was being asked:“The fact that Cryan must write his own defense and doesn’t get any backing from Achleitner is a sign of weakness for the CEO,” said Florian Sauerburger, a portfolio manager at Aramea Asset Management, which owns Deutsche Bank stock.It's true. It rather seems like the intended audience for the memo was Achleitner and the board, and that its message was "back off." "We need to focus on executing on the strategy that was agreed and signed off by both the management and supervisory boards," wrote Cryan, who mentioned the "destabilizing effect" of "widespread rumors" and urged, "Let’s not allow ourselves to be thrown off course." They're all employee-appropriate sentiments, I guess, but also interpretable as an argument that the noisy search for his replacement should quiet down. Meanwhile there is this:The person close to Mr Achleitner stressed that replacing Mr Cryan “is not a foregone conclusion at this point”, adding that the chief executive should take the debate as “a warning shot” and redouble efforts to cut costs. Is that a thing? Is it normal for a board of directors to go around noisily auditioning replacements for their CEO in order to light a fire under the incumbent? It seems rather tough for the incumbent's authority, not to mention his morale. Anyway as long as Cryan is still around he is going to do what he does, which is make cuts at the investment bank, though there too Deutsche seems to be of two minds about everything:As part of the investment bank review, cuts are being discussed at both big trading businesses -- equities as well as fixed income, currencies and commodities -- because they are expensive and haven’t performed well, said one person. However, the extent of a potential retrenchment is unclear because many traders just got big bonuses in an effort to retain top performers, this person said.I have to say that getting a big retention bonus and then immediately being laid off is ... not the worst way to go. The crypto.Here is a profile of Zhao Changpeng, the founder of the cryptocurrency exchange Binance, who spent "several years developing trading systems for companies including Bloomberg L.P.," and who is now maybe a billionaire, but who has apparently never met a lawyer? Or something, I don't know, what do you make of this explanation for why Binance lists so many initial coin offerings that have characteristics of unregistered securities:Zhao said the exchange’s client identification policies are similar to those of some U.S.-based venues and that Binance takes a venture capital-like approach to evaluating the coins it lists, favoring those that are backed by teams with a track record and real products. He also asks issuers to provide Binance with a legal opinion that the coins aren’t securities.Look. The way venture capital works is that it invests in companies, specifically by buying securities of those companies. If you evaluate coins by examining their team and their products using a "venture capital-like approach," that is because they are companies and they are issuing securities. Also I have a feeling we should check in on this guy in six months:“The less regulation, the better,” said Zachary Ising, a 24-year-old graduate student at California University of Pennsylvania who relies on virtual currency trading for all his income and has a majority of his assets in a Binance account. “I’m confident in Binance’s ability to secure its own platform.”Elsewhere: "Russia says Venezuela has not offered to repay debts in cryptocurrency." And: "Reddit Disables Bitcoin Payments." Honestly I didn't know that you could pay for Reddit, but if I had known that you could pay for Reddit, I'd have been pretty confident that you could pay for Reddit with Bitcoin. Now you can't. Blockchain blockchain blockchain.Here is "Blockchain Technology for Corporate Governance and Shareholder Activism" by Anne Lafarre and Christoph Van der Elst. "Shares are usually held through complex chains of intermediaries," they write, and "these intermediaries not only add transaction costs to shareholder participation per se, there is also high uncertainty that information, including the record of shareholder votes, is correctly channelled between ultimate shareholders and companies in remote participation." The solution is of course the blockchain:In a private blockchain, managed by the company only accessible for shareholders for example on the Hyperledger of IBM, the company and shareholders that hold sufficient shares can place proposals. Smart contracting allows for the private ledger to be structured so that all relevant information including majority rules and access rights that are contained in the articles of association and the law are taken into account. Once a certain proposal is placed in the blockchain, shareholders that hold shares in the company are immediately notified and can exercise their voting rights during a short period. The voting results may become instantly available after a cut-off point, and majority requirements, necessary to render the decision binding and verifiable, need to be reached in a specified timeframe. Shareholders can verify their own transactions, but none of the shareholders should be able to determine what voting decision was taken by other shareholders. Look, you know, fine. We have talked about exactly these problems -- the complex chain of intermediation in stock voting that leads to uncertainty and reduced participation -- and in fact I have even gone so far as to mutter the word "blockchain" in those discussions. But what if you replaced the word "blockchain" in the paragraph above with a word like, say, "website"? What if the company had a private website where it could put proposals, and a database where it tracked share ownership, and the shareholders could log in to the website and see and vote on proposals? The call here is for a private blockchain -- one administered by the company -- so the trustlessness and decentralization benefits of public blockchains are not relevant. This is just an argument that companies should have better databases for tracking their shareholders, and better user interfaces to allow those shareholders to vote their shares. The blockchain has nothing to do with it, except that people want to read about the blockchain.Elsewhere, some of the people who piloted blockchain projects realized they were pointless:DTCC, known as Wall Street’s bookkeeper, recently put the brakes on a blockchain system for the clearing and settlement of repurchase, or repo, agreement transactions, said Murray Pozmanter, head of clearing agency services at the DTCC.The project, which had successfully tested with startup Digital Asset Holdings (DA), was shelved because banks and other potential users believed the same results could be achieved more cheaply using current technology, he said.“Basically, it became a solution in search of a problem,” he said.Yes! The blockchain project worked! But also so would a database run by a trusted central counterparty such as, just to throw one name out there, DTCC. You could just about imagine someone, somewhere, saying "the blockchain is a solution to the problem that we rely too much on DTCC to clear and settle repo trades." (I mean, it seems like a niche thing to worry about, but you could.) It is harder to imagine DTCC concluding that. And if DTCC is going to run a centralized blockchain, why not just run a centralized database instead?Virtual reality.Are we currently living in a computer simulation run for the entertainment or edification of some far more intelligent beings? Sure, why not. I have to say that the best evidence for it is that when people come up with virtual-reality projects, the reality always seems to be so grimly literal. Microsoft Corp., for instance, developed "a digital room where we could sit at a digital desk and interact with Microsoft programs such as Word," which sounds a whole lot like the actual rooms at my house and my office where I sit at an actual desk and interact with Word. And if a virtual-reality desk job isn't quite existentially terrifying enough for you, now you can virtually die at your virtual-reality desk:Visitors could don VR glasses and earphones to experience having a seizure at work, a failed paramedic rescue, and entrance into the afterlife. Funeral parlor employee Dong Ziyi told The Beijing News that the immersive experience “enables people to better cherish the beauty of life.”Now we just need a virtual-reality experience of eating lunch at your desk. We really are building all the components of virtual-reality life, and death, under late capitalism. I would naïvely have thought that people would build virtual reality experiences that are, you know, fun, that you can't really get in your daily life. As opposed to, like, "do some word processing and then die at your desk." But I guess the fact that our simulated reality is so much like our boring reality is an argument that our boring reality is itself a simulation.Things happen.CME to Buy Spencer’s NEX to Create Trading Venue Behemoth. Takeda Mulls Bid for Shire to Create Global Drug Titan. Record ‘mega-deal’ surge pushes global takeovers beyond $1.2tn. Facebook Could Be Fined Millions for Violating Consent Deal. Trump Renews Amazon Criticism After Aide Denies Policy Changes. "It's been explained to him in multiple meetings that his perception is inaccurate and that the post office actually makes a ton of money from Amazon." Warren Buffett Is Now America’s No. 2 Real Estate Broker. New Numbers Show the Gender Pay Gap Is Real. "A top Morgan Stanley broker was repeatedly accused of violence against ex-wives and girlfriends. Bank managers were told. But he kept his job." What If Prosecutors Wanted to Keep People Out of Prison? The Long, Slow Demise of My Little Pony and Yoda. DMX wants judge to hear his rhymes before being sentenced for tax fraud. If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-03-28T16:00:01.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/crypto-s-billionaire-trading-king-has-suddenly-run-into-problems
Even in a cryptocurrency industry teeming with overnight success stories, Zhao Changpeng stands out.In less than eight months, the founder of Binance has grown his company from an idea into the world’s largest digital-asset exchange by traded value. He has vaulted from obscurity to the cover of Forbes magazine, steered Binance to a $200 million profit in its second quarter of existence, and amassed a personal fortune that he claims is worth as much as $2 billion.Zhao ChangpengBut after a meteoric rise that defied financial orthodoxy (Binance doesn’t have a bank account or a public address), the 41-year-old coder-turned-exchange kingpin is now facing headwinds that threaten to send him -- and a big swathe of the cryptocurrency trading complex -- back down to Earth.Not only have the world’s virtual currencies lost more than half their value since crypto-mania peaked in January, but trading activity has slumped and hackers have stepped up attacks on cryptocurrency exchanges. Perhaps most worryingly for Binance -- which like many of its peers has been operating with little to no oversight -- regulators around the world are clamping down on the Wild West environment that enabled the venue’s breakneck growth.Read more: A QuickTake explainer on the crypto crackdown.Zhao abandoned his plan to build a base in Japan last month, following inquiries from the nation’s securities regulator that led to an official notice to stop operating in the country without a license. Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission has also issued warnings to Binance and several of its peers in recent months, telling the exchanges to refrain from trading cryptocurrencies that qualify as securities, a person familiar with the matter said.If any of this has shaken Zhao, he’s certainly not showing it. When news of the Japan warning emerged last week, he responded by sharing a Chinese proverb with his more than 139,000 Twitter followers: “New (often better) opportunities always emerge during times of change.” In a series of interviews with Bloomberg News over the past two months, Zhao has described regulation as a risk for Binance but said that he wants to work with authorities. He also made it clear that he’s as optimistic as he’s ever been about cryptocurrencies.“I’m convinced 100 percent that crypto is the future,” said Zhao, who is the single largest shareholder in Binance and makes all the company’s key decisions. “I just know it will happen.”Not everyone is so sanguine.“It’s a regulatory minefield out there right now,” said Thomas Glucksmann, head of Asia-Pacific business development at Hong Kong-based crypto exchange Gatecoin Ltd. “Less than a handful of jurisdictions are welcoming crypto businesses and even fewer have very clear rules and guidelines for crypto exchanges.”Binance, whose online platform allows users from almost anywhere in the world to bet on the direction of hundreds of cryptocurrency trading pairs, has several of the attributes that regulators worry about most.For starters, the exchange’s “know-your-customer” policies are some of the industry’s least rigorous. Users need only an email address to open Binance trading accounts with daily withdrawal limits equivalent to two Bitcoins ($15,782), providing a level of anonymity that makes it difficult to deter everything from money laundering to market manipulation.Binance’s support of initial coin offerings, which fund blockchain startups, is another source of concern. Many of the more than 100 coins listed on the exchange have security-like characteristics, but lack the disclosure requirements and investor protections that one would expect to find on a regulated venue like the New York Stock Exchange. One of the most-traded coins on Binance’s platform is Tether, whose creator has been subpoenaed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission amid questions over the veracity of claims that the token is fully backed by dollars.Read more: Why Crypto Traders Are So Worried About TetherBinance’s marketing tactics have also raised eyebrows. Some of its most popular promotions have included a Lamborghini giveaway and a commission-sharing referral program that Lex Sokolin, a partner at Autonomous Research LLP in London, says may in effect be turning Binance users into unlicensed securities brokers.“Binance lacks regulation and transparency,’’ said David Shin, president of the Singapore-based Asia Fintech Society. “It’s like a van stopped in front of an office building selling coffee while the legit coffee shops on the street suffer.’’Zhao said the exchange’s client identification policies are similar to those of some U.S.-based venues and that Binance takes a venture capital-like approach to evaluating the coins it lists, favoring those that are backed by teams with a track record and real products. He also asks issuers to provide Binance with a legal opinion that the coins aren’t securities.At the same time, Zhao readily admits that Binance wants to minimize government oversight. “We’re OK to do things very creatively to avoid unnecessary regulation,’’ he said in a January interview.Zhao keeps the locations of Binance’s offices and servers secret -- making it tough to determine which country has jurisdiction over the company -- and he instructs employees to keep quiet about their affiliation with the exchange on social media. He said he never stays in one place for too long, living out of short-term rentals and hotels in Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong (where he prefers the Mandarin Oriental or the Ritz-Carlton).He has also kept Binance insulated from the traditional financial system and all the regulatory requirements that come with it. The exchange only handles trades between cryptocurrencies, meaning clients can swap one token for another but not for a fiat currency like the dollar or the euro. Instead of a bank account, Binance uses other exchanges that facilitate crypto-to-traditional currency transfers when it needs to send cash to employees or vendors.Read more: A QuickTake explainer on cryptocurrencies.Zhao has declined Bloomberg News requests to provide proof of his personal wealth, grant access to Binance’s offices and share the company’s financial statements. While the exchange’s reported turnover was ranked No. 1 in the world during the past 24 hours by Coinmarketcap.com, a cryptocurrency data aggregator, Binance has no regulator to audit its volume statistics.The exchange’s unconventional approach has attracted criticism, but Binance also has plenty of fans. Its trading systems are seen as among the most reliable in the digital-asset world and its baseline transaction fee of 0.1 percent is lower than most competitors. The venue has yet to suffer a major cyber theft, despite being targeted by what it described as an unsuccessful “large-scale phishing and stealing attempt’’ in early March.As for the lack of government oversight, it’s actually a plus for some Binance users who gravitated to cryptocurrencies because of their potential to upend the financial and regulatory status quo.“The less regulation, the better,” said Zachary Ising, a 24-year-old graduate student at California University of Pennsylvania who relies on virtual currency trading for all his income and has a majority of his assets in a Binance account. “I’m confident in Binance’s ability to secure its own platform.”In both his public statements and private conversations, Zhao comes across as focused on serving the needs of Binance’s eight million users and creating a world-class trading platform. The former high school volleyball star, who emigrated to Canada from China with his parents just a few months after the brutal crackdown on protesters in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in 1989, was a relatively early believer in virtual currencies and has become increasingly dedicated to the cause over the past five years.Zhao ChangpengHe said he began his crypto career in 2013 at blockchain.info, a digital wallet provider, after studying computer engineering in college and spending several years developing trading systems for companies including Bloomberg L.P., the parent of Bloomberg News. By 2014, Zhao was so confident in the outlook for cryptocurrencies that he sold his apartment in Shanghai for the equivalent of $1.1 million and put all his proceeds into Bitcoin.He started Binance in July 2017, opening the exchange 11 days after raising $15 million in an initial coin offering. The platform proved popular with users almost immediately, and by the time the crypto frenzy peaked a few months ago, it was hosting as much as $11 billion of trades a day.Zhao, who goes by CZ, has handled his success differently than the stereotypical Bitcoin Bro. He’s older than most of his peers, and has no interest in the status symbols of the crypto-world’s nouveau riche (the Lamborghini giveaway was the brainchild of Binance’s marketing chief). Other than luxury hotels and business class flights, Zhao said he has little use for his fortune. He doesn’t own a car or a house, and mostly wears Binance-branded t-shirts and hoodies. He has few interests outside cryptocurrencies.“I don’t really stop thinking about Binance,” he said over dinner in Hong Kong in January, excusing himself at one point during the meal to interview a job candidate.Zhao’s reputation has been strong enough to earn at least one government’s endorsement. On March 23 the Prime Minister of Malta, which is trying to position itself as a cryptocurrency and blockchain hub for the European Union, welcomed the exchange via Twitter after Bloomberg News reported that Binance was planning to set up operations on the island nation.Zhao, who has consulted Malta’s government on cryptocurrency legislation, said in an interview that he’ll soon set up a “fiat-to-crypto” trading platform in the country and that he’s close to securing a relationship with local banks.That could prove to be an important milestone for Binance, but it’s unlikely to shield the company from growing regulatory scrutiny in the world’s biggest virtual currency hubs.In Japan, authorities are getting tougher on supervision after Coincheck Inc., a Tokyo-based trading platform, lost about $500 million of assets to hackers in January. This month’s warning letter to Binance prohibits it from servicing Japanese users and has probably dented Zhao’s chances of securing a license in the country.Korean officials, meanwhile, have tightened know-your-customer regulations for cryptocurrencies in recent months and are developing a broad set of rules for the industry that could make it harder for venues like Binance to offer their services. In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing everything from trading venues to ICOs and cryptocurrency hedge funds.Worries over a clampdown have weighed on volumes and dragged Bitcoin below $8,000 this week from nearly $20,000 in December. Turnover on Binance over the past 24 hours was about $1.5 billion, according to Coinmarketcap.com, down more than 80 percent from its peak.Exchange operators “can’t escape’’ increased regulation, said Vijay Ayyar, the Singapore-based head of business development at Luno, a cryptocurrency platform. “The sort of trading activity we’re seeing in this space is starting to be quite serious. Most countries realize they can’t turn a blind eye.’’Zhao’s run-ins with authorities, in other words, may just be getting started.— With assistance by Andrea Tan

2018-03-26T04:38:27.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/what-the-world-s-governments-are-saying-about-cryptocurrencies
Getting your head around cryptocurrencies was hard enough before governments got involved. But now that policy makers around the world are drawing up fresh regulations on everything from exchanges to initial coin offerings, keeping track of what’s legal has become just as daunting as figuring out which newfangled token might turn into the next Bitcoin.The rules can vary wildly by country, given a lack of global coordination among authorities. And while that may change after finance chiefs discuss digital assets at the Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires this week, for the time being there’s a wide range of opinions on how best to regulate the space. Below is a rundown of what major countries are doing now.Most of the world’s cryptocurrency trading takes place in this tech-savvy region, with Japan playing a dominant role after it introduced a licensing system for digital-asset exchanges last year. In Hong Kong, regulators have adopted a more hands-off approach while at the same time warning crypto platforms to refrain from trading anything that qualifies as a security without permission. Singapore’s deputy prime minister has called cryptocurrencies an “experiment,” adding that he doesn’t see a strong case to ban trading. Taiwan authorities are taking a wait-and-see approach, while the Philippines plans to roll out rules for ICOs by year-end.China, once a global hub for cryptocurrency trading, now leads the world in cracking down. It has outlawed digital-asset exchanges and ICOs, blocked online access to overseas trading platforms and cut off power to Bitcoin miners. South Korea, which became a hotbed of cryptocurrency activity last year, is also tightening oversight as it works on a comprehensive set of regulations, though it has allowed exchanges to keep operating for now. In India, where crypto-mania has been relatively subdued, the government has said it doesn’t consider digital currencies to be legal tender and will take measures to curb their use.Most cryptocurrency trading in the U.S. takes place in a legal gray area, a point highlighted by the nation’s two top market watchdogs in testimony to Congress in February. Still, the Securities and Exchange Commission has been scrutinizing everything from ICOs to cryptocurrency hedge funds and trading venues. How exactly it plans to crack down on the industry remains to be seen.In Canada, regulators have said that ICOs may be treated as securities and that products linked to cryptocurrencies should be considered high-risk. At the same time, the country’s stock exchanges have become popular destinations for crypto-related stocks and exchange-traded funds. Brazil’s market regulator, meanwhile, has barred funds from investing in cryptocurrencies because they aren’t classified as financial assets.The European Commission is still reviewing the bloc’s regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies. The European Securities and Markets Authority, which coordinates standards across member states, has proposed restrictions on derivatives tied to virtual currencies for retail investors, and is also assessing how the EU’s new MiFID II rules apply to digital assets. One regulation that’s already in the pipeline: platforms that exchange virtual currencies for conventional money will soon have to verify the identity of their customers.At the national level, Germany has cracked down on trading venues that lack permission to offer brokerage services and French authorities have said that online platforms for crypto-derivatives should face tough reporting and business conduct standards. In the U.K., a parliamentary committee is looking at how to police digital currencies.Russia’s finance ministry unveiled draft legislation in January that would ban cryptocurrency payments while allowing ICOs and the exchange of virtual currencies into the traditional sort. To make the rules permanent, the ministry may have to overcome opposition from the nation’s central bank.It’s mostly a gray area for cryptocurrency regulation in major African economies. South Africa’s markets regulator doesn’t oversee virtual currencies or digital-asset exchanges, though the central bank has said it will investigate an “appropriate policy framework and regulatory regime.” In Zimbabwe, where digital currencies are traded on exchanges and used for remittance payments, the monetary authority has warned about the risk of “money laundering, terrorism financing, tax evasion and fraud.”It’s a similar story in Kenya, one of Africa’s most tech-savvy nations. There, Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have grown in popularity even as officials have warned against trading them. In Nigeria, cryptocurrency markets aren’t regulated, but the central bank, which likens Bitcoin trading to gambling, has said that will probably change.— With assistance by Sam Mamudi, Adrian Leung, Andrea Tan, Silla Brush, Benjamin Robertson, Paul Wallace, Benjamin Bain, Yuji Nakamura, Stepan Kravchenko, Kristine Owram, Godfrey Marawanyika, Julia Leite, Colleen Goko, Santanu Chakraborty, Emily Cadman, Cindy Wang, Anuchit Nguyen, and Aline Oyamada

2018-03-26T11:30:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/goldman-backed-cryptocurrency-startup-says-it-s-profitable
Circle Internet Finance Ltd., a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.-backed startup focused on mobile payments and cryptocurrencies, said it has reached profitability and hired a former Boxed Wholesale executive to lead finance and risk.The company said it expects revenue and profit growth this year. Circle plans to increase its workforce by the end of the year to 400 from 150. The Dublin-based startup also said it hired Naeem Ishaq as chief financial officer and head of risk. Ishaq had been CFO at e-commerce startup Boxed, and previously was head of finance, strategy and risk at payments company Square Inc.Founded in 2013, the startup uses blockchain technology for its mobile payments app, called Circle Pay. It has expanded to include Circle Invest, a platform for investing in digital assets, and Circle Trade, an over-the-counter trading desk for cryptocurrencies. Circle Trade, which handles as much as $4 billion a month, acts as an intermediary between buyers and sellers. Its average customer order is more than $1 million, according to Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Allaire. Earlier this year, the company acquired Poloniex Inc., one of the larger digital-token exchanges, for a reported $400 million.From December through February, the company said it facilitated more than $75 billion across its platforms. In that same time period, revenue was more than $250 million, according to a person familiar with the company’s finances.Circle competes with a variety of digital wallets and exchanges, including Coinbase Inc. Crypto trading platforms are becoming increasingly crowded, as companies ranging from Square to stock-trading app Robinhood have rolled out capabilities. At the same time, other firms have started to distance themselves from the volatile digital-currency market. Earlier this year Stripe Inc. said it would end support for Bitcoin payments due to long transaction times and high fees. Facebook Inc. said it would ban ads that promote cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings.Circle is backed by about $140 million in venture capital from investors such as Goldman, Baidu Inc., and investment bank China International Capital Corp.

2018-03-28T16:25:06.660Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-28/canadian-pot-and-crypto-stocks-among-promoters-flagged-by-otc
A blockchain company, a battery-metal explorer and a pot grower are among 13 Canadian companies being flagged by OTC Markets Group under a new system to warn investors about stock promotions.“Anonymous, paid stock promotion should have no place in the public markets,” R. Cromwell Coulson, chief executive officer of OTC Markets Group, which lists 10,000 companies on its exchange, said in a statement Wednesday. The U.S. over-the-counter exchange said it will begin placing a megaphone icon beside companies that are the subject of promotions in an effort to protect investors. Fifty-six companies display the promotion warning as of today.Paid promotions aren’t illegal in Canada or the U.S., as long as they are properly disclosed to investors and don’t contain false information. In practice, disclaimers are often hard to spot, especially when intermediaries are involved. Promotions typically mimic legitimate news articles.“We continue to work with regulators to advocate for the modernization of promotion regulations, including requiring additional disclosure around paid stock promotion and identifying the people associated with these campaigns,” Coulson said.Because promoters are often based outside the U.S. and promotions are published online or sent to investors by text or email, they’re difficult to regulate. In a worst-case scenario, when insiders cash out at the market peak on news that turns out to be hype, they can be classic pump-and-dumps.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pays attention to bad actors in this area. Last year, the regulator sued 27 individuals and their companies for their involvement in bogus stock promotions that appeared on SeekingAlpha.com and elsewhere.OTC Markets is also placing a shell icon beside securities it believes may be shell companies, as defined by SEC rules.Click here for a story on paid promotions in lithiumThe 13 Canadian companies that received OTC megaphones are:None of them immediately provided a comment on the OTC decision, except Affinor, whose CEO Nick Brusatore said the firm isn’t concerned by the policy as his company is “promoting something and telling the truth.” Last year, Lexington Biosciences was asked by OTC Markets to explain its stock promotions. At the time, it said it didn’t pay for or review the materials.Since early 2017, OTC Markets has asked 17 Canadian companies to respond directly to questions about stock promotion, the exchange’s director of corporate communications, Annmarie Gioia, said by email.In Canada, easy listing rules on the country’s junior exchanges -- including the use of zombie shell companies that provide access via reverse takeovers -- have led to spectacular rallies in hot commodities like bitcoin, marijuana and metals used for electric vehicles. Paid stock promotion is often part of the hype.“TSX Venture Exchange has clear policies regarding investor relations activities but we have no intention of penalizing our listed entrepreneurs for arm’s length, third-party content,” Managing Director Brady Fletcher said by email.— With assistance by Annie Massa, and Jen Skerritt

2018-03-26T20:01:01.354Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/crypto-exchange-coinbase-adds-support-for-ethereum-based-tokens
Coinbase Inc., which owns one of the largest U.S. cryptocurrency trading platforms, is opening the door to offering digital tokens based on the Ethereum network.The San Francisco-based company said it will support Ethereum’s ERC20 technical standard on its platform in the coming months, according to a blog post the firm published Monday. ERC20 is the technical standard used to build Ethereum-based tokens, such as EOS, Qtum, OmiseGo and Bancor. There are more than 50,000 ERC20 token contracts, according to Etherscan website.“This paves the way for supporting ERC20 assets across Coinbase products in the future, though we aren’t announcing support for any specific assets or features at this time,” the post said. Coinbase trades Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether and Litecoin on its GDAX exchange.The move comes less than three weeks after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said platforms serving as venues for digital assets that are securities will need to register with the agency as a national exchange, or qualify for an exemption. Coinbase says it’s exempt from SEC registration requirements as they do not list assets that could be considered securities.

2018-03-22T23:30:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-22/ex-googler-wants-to-upend-pigs-and-hotels-with-the-blockchain
A Taiwanese startup led by a former Google employee intends to employ the same technology that underpins Bitcoin and Ethereum to shake up animal husbandry and travel.Darren Wang’s OwlTing has rolled out a system to establish the provenance of stuff: hotel bookings, or pigs from birth to market. The seven-year-old startup says it’s amassed hundreds of clients across Taiwan and its model enhances not just food safety but also verifies commercial transactions.One of a growing number of fledgling players seeking to bring crypto-chains to the real world, OwlTing’s ambitions gel with Taiwan’s -- an electronics powerhouse that missed out on the internet boom. The island wants to ensure it isn’t left behind as companies from the U.S. to China race to unlock the potential of the blockchain: an open ledger verified by multiple parties that (in theory) safeguards the integrity of all sorts of dealings.“Getting a new innovative business off the ground in Taiwan is actually really tough. The venture capital scene isn’t that vibrant,” said Wang, 39, who’s helmed two other startups since leaving Google in Mountain View, California, where he helped maintain databases for Greater China. “I want to prove Taiwan can do it too.”All About Bitcoin, Blockchain and Their Crypto World: QuickTakeTwinning sensors and a blockchain tracking system can prove where an agricultural product hails from: for instance, if you wanted to guarantee the grapes in your champagne truly originated in the Champagne region of France. One of the biggest players is International Business Machines Corp., which partnered with food titans including Dole Food Co., Nestle SA, Unilever NV and Walmart Inc. last summer on a pilot to add blockchain to their businesses.OwlTing, which has raised $6 million from Kyber Capital and Midana Capital among others, has built a blockchain-based system for 400 clients that eliminates double-booking of hotel rooms, by recording real-time inventory as customers book through online services such as Expedia. And its OwlChain tracks animal births, vaccinations, feeding routines: employees at fisheries or pig farms input that data into an app, which the company then converts into QR codes and adds to the blockchain once verified, for all to see.Given it’s on track to turn profitable this year on a mere $15 million in annual revenue, Wang says he’s aiming to raise as much as $500 million via a Nasdaq listing by the second quarter of next year. OwlTing has also invested in fellow Taiwanese startup CoolBitX, which is setting up a digital wallet for virtual currencies and has attracted capital from SBI Holdings Inc.“Taiwan is well positioned to seize this unique window of opportunity to become a global leader in crypto technology,” said Thomas Hu, CEO of Hong Kong-based Kyber.

2018-03-22T09:56:34.609Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-22/bitcoin-falls-after-report-that-binance-faces-warning-in-japan
A regulatory rebuke for one of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges is giving Bitcoin investors the jitters.Japan’s Financial Services Agency issued a warning to Binance for operating cryptocurrency exchange services with Japanese residents through the internet without a license in the country, according to a statement on the agency’s website. Bitcoin fell as much as 4.5 percent after the Nikkei first reported the warning on Thursday, and was down 0.2 percent at 9:31 a.m. in Hong Kong on Friday.Zhao ChangpengBinance, founded by Zhao Changpeng, was warned because it had several staff in Japan and had been expanding without official permission, according to a person familiar with the FSA’s plans, who asked not to be named because the information is private.The news adds to signs that governments around the world are stepping up scrutiny of cryptocurrencies amid worries that they’re facilitating everything from money laundering to tax evasion and fraud. Japan, one of the most active markets for digital assets globally, introduced a licensing system for virtual currency exchanges last year in an effort to improve oversight.Binance told Bloomberg in January that it was working to acquire a license in Japan, but the warning could complicate those efforts. Zhao said on Thursday that the exchange is “engaged in constructive dialogue” with the FSA. While Binance was founded in Hong Kong last year, Zhao has said that his company does not currently have a legal headquarters anywhere in the world.Read more: What the World’s Governments Are Saying About CryptocurrenciesThe FSA has been clamping down on cryptocurrency venues in the wake of a $500 million theft from Japanese exchange Coincheck Inc. in January. Last month, the regulator issued an administrative penalty against Macau-based Blockchain Laboratory Ltd. for giving seminars and providing consultation services in Japan without a license. Earlier this month, it suspended several local venues for poor security measures.Binance has consistently ranked as the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume since late last year, according to Coinmarketcap.com. It held the top volume ranking for the past 24 hours, trading about $1.6 billion, the website shows.

2018-03-26T13:40:12.541Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/sprott-backed-blockchain-platform-aims-to-give-gold-digital-edge
Cryptocurrencies and the blockchain were thought by some to replace gold as the ultimate haven against financial calamity. Now the gold market is using blockchain to kick back at crypto and bring precious metals into the digital age.TradeWind Markets Inc., a technology provider backed by Sprott Inc., Goldcorp Inc. and IEX Group Inc. on Monday launched a new digital gold trading and settlement platform that aims to simplify and speed up trading and reduce transaction costs. The Royal Canadian Mint will provide storage for the platform, confirm that it’s in possession of the physical gold that underlines it and guarantee the option of physical delivery.“The gold market today is a very manual market. A lot of the dealing is done over the telephone, via email, maybe even faxes or chat rooms,” Matt Trudeau, president of New York-based TradeWind, said in a phone interview. “We feel like this will reduce the frictional and transactional costs in the market and lead to greater liquidity and price discovery.”TradeWind’s offering joins other blockchain-based gold platforms, including a partnership between CME Group Inc. and the U.K.’s Royal Mint. Cryptocurrencies have been volatile this year but blockchain, the secure distributed ledger system that underlies it, has been working its way into industries from financial services to food safety.All About Bitcoin, Blockchain and Their Crypto World: QuickTakeTradeWind will use a tailored blockchain application called VaultChain that will securely identify participants, register gold and settle transactions. The platform will initially target physical gold dealers in North America, but Trudeau said it’s designed to eventually operate on a global scale.Gold-focused money manager Sprott owns approximately 20 percent of TradeWind and plans to use the platform as a dealer, but said it’s too soon to say whether it will migrate its physical gold trust onto the platform. Chief Executive Officer Peter Grosskopf called the digitization of gold trading “the most important thing to happen to the gold market in the last several decades.”“Gold has always been criticized as being an inefficient product, a lazy product, a product that’s hard to transact with,” Grosskopf said in a phone interview. “It’s almost as though the blockchain were invented for gold. The marriage of the two, I think it’s going to be incredibly powerful.”Grosskopf said he sees a day where gold is used as a form of digital cash, supplanting cryptocurrencies and opening up a “completely new user base.”“It’s a market that’s many hundred times as large as cryptocurrency markets and once it’s fast and it’s secure, why would anyone use crypto?” Grosskopf said. “Every year since the 1970s gold has lost market share to financial assets and I think this gives it a chance to come back against those financial assets.”While Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency, has lost about 43 percent this year, gold prices have gained about 3.6 percent.Customers will be able to own gold in fractional qualities in a wallet directly on TradeWind’s blockchain, and will not be charged management or administrative fees. Instead, TradeWind’s revenue will come from transaction fees paid by the dealers.— With assistance by Luzi-Ann Javier, and Olga Kharif

2018-03-26T20:31:22.980Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jf8otud0
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereU.S. stocks surge as Washington and Beijing continue to hold trade discussions, while North Korea’s Kim Jong Un appears to have made a visit to China. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Asia stocks look set to rebound after U.S. equities surged back from the biggest weekly rout in two years, with major benchmarks climbing more than 2.7 percent on signs that an escalation of global trade tensions was beginning to ease. Chipmakers and banks led gains as the S&P 500 Index posted its biggest one-day jump since August 2015, while 20 stocks climbed for every one that fell. The advance erased Friday’s drop, though the gauge still had a ways to go to make up all of last week’s losses.  Elsewhere, 10-year Treasury yields climbed ahead of major debt sales, while the dollar dropped to a five-week low.U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration is urging China to lower tariffs on cars and open its market to U.S. financial services as part of talks to resolve a rise in trade tensions that has shaken global markets, according to a person familiar with the matter. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin called China’s Liu He to congratulate Liu on his appointment this month as vice premier in charge of economic policy -- and the two discussed the trade deficit between the two countries and committed to finding a mutually agreeable way to reduce the gap, the person said, adding they have exchanged correspondence. Senior Trump trade adviser Peter Navarro says the president is seeking a nearly one-third narrowing of the U.S. trade deficit with China.Kim Jong Un made a surprise visit to Beijing on his first known trip outside North Korea since taking power in 2011, three people with knowledge of the visit said. Further details of his trip, including how long Kim would stay and who he would meet, were not immediately available. The people asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the information. In other geopolitics news, the U.S., European Union nations, Ukraine and Canada expelled more than 100 Russian envoys in response to the nerve-agent attack on a former Russian spy in the U.K. Russia vowed to retaliate.For international investors trying to gauge China’s monetary policy, life is set to get even more complex. Guo Shuqing, a high-profile banking regulator and ally of President Xi Jinping in cleaning up the financial system, was appointed as Communist Party secretary of the People’s Bank of China, according to the central bank’s website. The move places Guo, 61, above newly anointed governor Yi Gang in the political pecking order and ushers in a management structure with few global equivalents. To discern policy, there’s now not just one official to watch, but at least three: Vice Premier Liu He, who has the economic and financial policy portfolio, Guo as party boss, and Yi with operational charge of the PBOC’s diverse toolkit. Separately, China’s decision to give its top military body control over the country’s vast coast guard has increased concerns about the risk of miscalculation in the disputed waters of East Asia.From afar, the economy inherited by New Zealand’s new central bank governor seems quite serene. Scratch beneath the surface, and some pressures are building. Adrian Orr today takes charge of an economy that’s in its 10th year of expansion, with record-high terms of trade and falling unemployment. That’s the good news. His economist’s eye will be swiftly focused on worsening capacity constraints, the sluggish outlook for inflation and whether low borrowing costs could rekindle a housing boom.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Andrew Mayeda, Tracy Withers, and Sarah Ponczek

2018-03-26T12:37:40.980Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-26/icos-can-wait-venture-capital-surges-into-crypto-startups
As the red-hot initial coin offering market comes under closer scrutiny from regulators, venture capitalist interest in crypto is also picking up.While ICOs were supposed to disrupt venture capital, such funding in blockchain-based companies is surging, with startups raising $434 million since December, the most ever in a three-month period, according to CoinDesk data.With the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission weighing in on the token industry, the venture capitalists’ increased interest in equity reflects a cautious bet that the business will grow.“If a company goes on and gets an ICO, my equity is worth more,” Frank Meehan, partner at SparkLabs Group, said. “That’s really the game right now.”Venture capital funding on blockchain companies picked up in last three monthsSource: CoinDeskThe $100 million blockchain fund launched late last year and is part of the SparkLabs Group which has invested in six blockchain companies, Meehan said. If it then invests in a company’s ICO, it may get a discount. And that’s an investment that can be sold sooner than an equity stake.Read More: Hedge Funds Flip ICOsToken sales continue to boom. Startups raised more than $3 billion through ICOs in just the first two months of the year, more than half of what they took in through all of 2017, according to CoinDesk data.In 2017, 46 percent of token startups either failed after their ICOs or weren’t able to complete funding, according to Bitcoin.com, which drew on statistics gathered by website TokenData. So far this year, 50 of 340 completed ICOs have failed, according to TokenData.The failure rate isn’t all that surprising considering many of these companies are armed with nothing more than a white paper, and don’t have a working product. They are working with a fledgling technology most of whose applications haven’t been tested in mass scale.So, some investors would rather wait for companies to establish themselves and to see how market regulation develops. Because many ICO investors increasingly want to invest in more mature companies, these startups need to raise equity to fund product development and marketing.“It’s a good time to be cautious. You’re not missing any boats,” said Lonne Jaffe, managing director at Insight Venture Partners. “We’ll invest once the companies are hitting on all cylinders and are starting to scale up.”Insight Venture is in talks with some of its portfolio companies about how they can use blockchain technology or serve startups in the industry, Jaffe said. The firm has $18 billion in raised capital for more than 300 companies, including Twitter Inc., according to the company.Initial coin offering funding is soaring even as regulators tighten graspSource: CoinDeskThe regulatory regime for securities is well-established, while the possible regulation of ordinary ICOs is still emerging. In a letter made public on March 6, the U.S. Treasury Department said some startups that issue tokens may be deemed money transmitters and will need to comply with bank-secrecy and know-your-customer guidelines. SEC Chairman Jay Clayton said in February that “every ICO I’ve seen is a security,” even though most token startups insist they aren’t.And Monday, social-media company Twitter joined Facebook and Google in banning ads for initial coin offerings and coin sales. Industry bellwether Bitcoin fell as much as 8.7 percent.Many investors, therefore, are more interested in buying tokens linked to equity or other assets -- so-called security tokens -- as a way to reduce regulatory surprises. Investor Jeff Pulver on March 8 announced the Security Token Association, a trade organization in Washington that will focus on tokens classified as securities.Launched this year, Securitize.io, a platform for issuing tokens tied to things like company equity and revenue, already has more than 100 startups, with plans to raise billions, in its pipeline, according to company co-founder Jamie Finn.“These models that bring dividends and real payments are very attractive,” Finn said. “We are starting to see big companies, big brands go to market in very interesting ways.”One company is opting to do an ICO through Securitize rather than go public via Nasdaq, he said. Another, Lottery.com, is planning to share with token holders part of the money raised in the charitable raffle it runs.Tokens that offer equity typically can be traded more easily than traditional startup equity, which may be tied up for years. Equity-linked tokens can be sold after a lockdown ends, typically closer to one year. Also, they’re sold online and easier to buy, so family offices, for example, can invest in them directly instead of going through funds, Finn said.For now, hardly any exchanges offer security token trading. One is Templum LLC, an SEC-registered broker-dealer and alternative trading system. Security tokens accounted for a $100 million sliver of the $400 billion crypto market as of last year, according to Polymath Inc., a platform for issuing such tokens. Still, as more institutional investors come on board and regulation tightens, security tokens will come to dominate the market, Polymath CEO Trevor Koverko said.“We just think ICOs are broken, and probably the SEC is going to have a lot of say about the money that’s been raised,” Joe Forbes, chief executive officer at Causam eXchange, said. “Having built a bunch of companies before and having a real product, why take the risk of raising capital that may have to be given back? Why risk the company’s future on an unknown regulatory situation?”Instead, on March 8 Causam started selling tokens representing 25 percent of the company to 1,000 U.S. accredited investors. The company, which makes it easier for energy providers to get paid quickly, hopes to raise $15 million. Buyers will be able to sell their tokens after a one-year lockdown. The five-year-old company already has a product, customers and profits, Forbes said.Jason A. Williams, who already owns equity in Causam, said he planned to participate in the sale. In February, he helped start a $25 million fund at venture firm Full Tilt Capital that will invest in such security tokens.“This takes a private offering that was historically illiquid and makes it liquid,” he said.

2018-03-22T16:33:09.552Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2018-03-22/bitcoin-futures-watchdog-gets-no-love-as-u-s-plans-budget-cut
As Bitcoin surges in popularity, global regulators have increasingly sounded alarms that crypto investments are susceptible to fraud, theft or even worse.U.S. lawmakers seem less concerned, as they are about to cut the funding of an agency that just took on the responsibility of policing Bitcoin futures.As part of a deal struck Wednesday to fund the federal government through September, Congress has agreed to trim the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s annual budget by $1 million to $249 million. While the decrease is minor on paper, it comes as the CFTC seeks to assert itself as a top cryptocurrency regulator. CFTC Chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo took it as a personal affront, as last year he requested the the agency’s funding be increased by 13 percent.J. Christopher Giancarlo.“We are absolutely astounded by the decrease in the CFTC’s budget,” CFTC Spokeswoman Erica Elliott Richardson said in an email. “Chairman Giancarlo takes this budget decrease incredibly personally, and is currently meeting with our finance team to figure out a path forward for the agency.”Read More: Spending Bill Unveiled in Congress as Shutdown Deadline LoomsThe CFTC, which as the U.S.’s main swaps regulator saw its oversight expand massively following the 2008 financial crisis, has struggled for years to get more money from Congress. Meanwhile, the budget deal would give the Securities and Exchange Commission a budget of $1.7 billion, about 3 percent more than the agency requested.

2018-03-23T09:00:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-23/art-forgers-find-a-new-enemy-in-verisart-s-blockchain-startup
Contemporary artist Philip Colbert, whose colorful, high-spirited art is finding buyers around the world, had been toying with the idea of creating his own catalog system to prove the authenticity of his expanding body of work.Verisart“I had a dealer in Japan who had been telling me I needed to have better forms of certification for my artwork, because people are buying art as an investment,” said the British artist, who appropriates pop culture images in his paintings, fashion and furniture. “Art is a currency in a way; at the end of the day when they come to auction, the provenance is a very important element of their value.”Rob NortonThen he met Rob Norton, the founder of Verisart, a U.S.-based startup that’s using blockchain, the ledger technology underlying Bitcoin, to verify the authenticity of artwork. It’s a problem as old as art itself, said Norton, and artists have long been unreliable when it comes to documenting their own work. As far back as the 17th century, Rembrandt’s dealer complained of his client’s poor record-keeping, Norton said.Blockchain creates an immutable, traceable record of every transaction, whether it’s art changing hands or Bitcoin. Widespread adoption of the technology could give a boost to the market for art online, which has yet to explode. Online sales currently account for only about 8 percent, or $5.4 billion, of the global art market, according to a report by UBS Group AG and Art Basel released this month.Trust -- or lack of it -- is at the core of the challenge, with potential buyers balking at the possibility of spending considerable sums on works whose provenance can’t be fully verified. Sources estimate the value of fraudulent activity in the global art market to exceed $6 billion per year and 80 percent of such activity is due to forgery, said Norton, the former chief executive officer of Saatchi Online and Sedition Art.Last year, three men were charged in New York with making counterfeit Damien Hirst prints and selling them online for more than $400,000, according to ArtNews. The arrest followed a sting operation by undercover New York police officers, who purchased two of the pieces, which were advertised as “limited edition” prints online, alongside fake certificates of authenticity and purchase receipts.When it comes to art, “there’s a higher hurdle of trust that you have to clear, you have to know that what you’re buying is real,” said Norton. “Art is the second-largest unregulated market after illicit drugs and it’s significantly overshadowed by fraudulent activity. You can accelerate trust and liquidity by providing better standards for verifiable, global certification.”The 800-pound gorillas have already arrived. Google, Microsoft Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. are all developing blockchain-related projects, a market already worth more than $700 million and growing rapidly. Such demand is fueling several startups that use blockchain to verify artwork.Codex, based in San Francisco and London, is going after the collectibles market, for everything from art to jewelry to antique cars. It has drawn investment from Pantera Capital, a hedge fund that invests in blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies.Newly minted crypto-millionaires and billionaires will be natural art buyers, according to Pantera. Codex is also working on an application called Biddable that will allow cryptocurrencies to be used to bid in art auctions.Read More: Blockchain’s Latest Purpose: Helping Art Collectors Spot FakesVerisart is also drawing investment. It has received funding from Rhodium, an early stage venture capital firm from Israel, Sinai Ventures from San Francisco and also issued convertible notes.Verisart started in 2015 as a phone app for artists to create their own system of art verification. That approach didn’t take off, said Norton. Then the company built a Web app working with Ahmed Elgammal, a computer science professor at Rutgers University.“We were a little bit early, we were figuring out where the market was, getting feedback from artists, and building a platform that people could use,” Norton said. “Now increasingly working with partners, those certificates can be customized.”Colbert’s certificates, for example, contain small reproductions of the piece itself called “image hashes,” along with all of the relevant information about its creation, ownership and movement, such as whether it was part of an exhibition. He’ll have a show in Tokyo in September and Beijing next February.Since Verisart uses the unaltered Bitcoin blockchain rather than a customized version, one risk may be that their effort can be easily replicated, since it brings little in the way of new technology. Some collectors, particularly those who buy and sell privately may also be reluctant to share their information in such a public way.“The blockchain is a more efficient method of verification,” Colbert said. “You’re not worried about the authentic value of your work, because it’s all about locking down the time and place. Then all those fakes aren’t doing you any damage. All those fake Mona Lisas don’t do the Mona Lisa any harm.”Ultimately, putting art on the blockchain could lead to a decentralized art registry that would cover a significant amount of the world’s art.“Over time, different registries will be able to share those image hashes and you could consolidate and build effectively a decentralized art registry,” Norton said. “There won’t be just one registry out there for all the art and collectibles’ markets but we do see the basis to build a decentralized title registry on the back of image hashes and cryptographic proofs.”The service may potentially become popular among artists selling limited edition prints, Norton said. Shepard Fairey, a Los Angeles-based artist best known for his portraits of President Obama and pictures of immigrants, was so impressed that he not only started using Verisart, he also invested in the company.Verisart“We’re excited to see Verisart develop and meet artist and gallery requirements for trusted digital certification,” Shepard and Amanda Fairey, his wife and business partner, said in a statement. “As artists move away from paper-based certificates of authenticity to digital ones, Verisart continues to add to and improve its service.”Fairey’s art is widely copied and can be seen at protests and other political events, so verification can be key.Blockchain certification on its own may increasingly turn into a generic service, potentially being explored by big players such as Facebook and Microsoft. But Verisart’s ability to allow artists to customize their own certificates and image hashes will give it a competitive edge, Norton argues.“Our view is that there won’t be just one registry out there for all the art and collectibles," Norton said. “But we do see the basis to build a decentralized title registry on the back of image hashes and cryptographic proofs.”

2018-03-20T13:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/wall-street-bitcoin-pioneer-quits-wedbush-for-blockchain-startup
Sheri Kaiserman was Wedbush Securities Inc.’s head of equities in 2013 when she made a bold call, granting permission to publish the first Wall Street analysis of Bitcoin’s value. The report didn’t explicitly recommend buying the cryptocurrency, but it did say huge gains were possible -- and investors who dove in that day have seen a more than 600 percent return.Now, she’s in the midst of another big leap: After 18 years at Wedbush, Kaiserman left this year and co-founded Maco.la Management, a blockchain-focused investment fund and advisory firm. On Tuesday, the Los Angeles-based company announced it has raised $6 million toward a $40 million goal.Sheri KaisermanKaiserman, who was ahead of her peers across the securities industry in recognizing Bitcoin’s potential, still sees huge prospects for blockchain, even if the popular cryptocurrency it supports has cooled off in recent months. The idea behind Maco.la is to help more startups conceive, design and build applications based on the technology, and to ensure there are enough developers to keep the ideas flowing, she said.Or, as Maco.la’s chief executive officer, Ron Reed, put it in a statement on Tuesday: “As a nascent industry, there is a lack of capital, viable technologies and talent.”What grabbed Kaiserman’s attention years ago? “The fact that there was now a way to cut out intermediaries,” she said in a phone interview. “It was, ‘Oh my god, this is a new world.’”Back in 2013, it wasn’t just Wall Street firms that mostly ignored digital currencies. Regulators hadn’t gotten involved much either. That’s completely changed in 2018, something Kaiserman welcomes.Read More: Bitcoin’s Wildest Days Are Over as Regulators Circle“While regulation is spooking everybody, it will create validation for the space,” she said. In the U.S., at least, regulators are “not being impulsive,” she said.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has signaled it believes many digital assets are securities, meaning they’ll be limited to trading on SEC-approved markets. Maco.la has a securities lawyer on its staff to ensure those rules are obeyed, Kaiserman said.Maco.la stands out, Kaiserman said, because two of its five co-founders are women, a rare thing in this male-dominated space.— With assistance by Eric Lam, and David Scheer

2018-03-20T18:51:03.435Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/bitcoin-spikes-as-g-20-expresses-no-desire-for-crypto-oversight
Bitcoin is rallying after the Group of 20 nations steered clear of calling for a coordinated clampdown on the cryptocurrency market.The largest digital currency jumped as much as 5.5 percent to $8,889 after hovering between 8,400 and 8,600 for the past day. Bitcoin is clawing its way back from a drop below $8,000 to a one-month low on Monday.While the G-20 highlighted the rising risk of cryptocurrencies, traders are relieved the ministers didn’t call for tighter regulation, according to John Spallanzani, a portfolio manager at Miller Value Partners. Investor concern about a coordinated clampdown had grown after the ministers said they would discuss a common approach to cryptocurrencies at their meeting in Buenos Aires on Monday and Tuesday.The digital currency is spiking as the “G-20 isn’t really throwing cold water on crypto," Spallanzani said.Bitcoin is still down more than 50 percent from an all-time high of almost $20,000 in December as the rest of the digital coin market slumps on concern tightening regulation globally will dampen trading and adoption.The G-20 communique said that digital coins are assets, which “lack the key attributes of sovereign currencies," and that “at some point they could have financial stability implications.” The G-20 set a July deadline to decide on cryptocurrency steps, without being more specific on what that meant.

2018-03-23T08:49:59.280Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-23/new-tariffs-and-central-bank-sheriffs-drive-economies-eco-week
It’s been a big week for the world economy.President Donald Trump imposed the tariffs on China he’s long threatened, the People’s Bank of China got a new governor and the Federal Reserve delivered its first interest rate increase of the Jerome Powell era.These events dominate our weekly wrap up of what’s happening in economies around the globe:Trump took the biggest economic gamble of his presidency by ordering at least $50 billion of levies on Chinese goods, drawing immediate retaliation from Beijing. Stocks plunged, led by Boeing Co. amid concerns a trade war is brewing and U.S. exporters and consumers may end up being hurt. Trump argued his aim is to level the playing field after years of intellectual property theft by China. The decision marks the end of decades of constructive engagement with Beijing.Friday is also set to see the U.S. introduce tariffs on steel and aluminum although it intends to initially shield a list of allies. That may not be able to pacify Group of 20 finance chiefs who used talks in Argentina to warn against protectionism.Read More:Bilateral trade in goodsSource: U.S. Census, Bloomberg dataNote: U.S. import data includes trade with Hong Kong, which is excluded from China's data. Exports and imports don't match due to pricing differences and transport costs. President Xi Jinping went with the continuity candidate in selecting Yi  Gang to run the PBOC. The new governor first joined the central bank in 1997 and served as deputy since 2015 to the now departed Zhou Xiaochuan. Yi immediately promised to keep to Zhou’s reform path and will face the challenge of cleaning up the nation’s finances without crashing the world’s second-largest economy. But he ultimately knows that the state will be in charge and in that regard, investors will need to closely monitor Liu He, Xi’s economic adviser who was elevated to Vice Premier status. Three days after Yi’s appointment, the PBOC increased the cost of short-term loans to commercial lenders.Read More:Powell chaired his first meeting of the Fed’s policy-setting committee as it boosted interest rates for the first time this year. It also forecast a steeper path of hikes in 2019 and 2020, citing an improving economic outlook, yet continued to project a total of three increases this year. Powell indicated in setting policy he will be driven more by the behavior of the economy than by the models and theories which motivated his predecessors. For now, Bloomberg economist Carl Riccadonna reckons the Fed is “proceeding with a similar sense of gradual deliberation” as Janet Yellen’s.Read More:The Bank of England moved closer to raising interest rates as early as May after keeping its benchmark at 0.5 percent this week.Kuwait tightened policy for the first time in a year to follow the Fed. Brazil’s central bank cut its benchmark to a record low and signaled it could go deeper and Russia also reduced rates, while New Zealand indicated no plan to raise its key rate any time soon. Chile, Indonesia and the Philippines remained on hold as did Colombia, one the world’s least predictable central banks. Read More:Swaps curves show the chance of a May rate increase has risen to 86 percentSource: BloombergBalance of exports means U.S. could prioritize other countries over U.K. trade pactSource: Bureau of Economic Analysis trade statistics, 2017 

2018-03-20T04:00:01.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/when-is-a-bitcoin-not-a-bitcoin-when-it-s-an-asset-says-g-20
Finance ministers seeking to crack down on tax evasion this week in Buenos Aires have cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin at the forefront of their minds.The Group of 20 countries are moving to a consensus that cryptocurrencies aren’t money after all, but an asset. That means trades potentially could be subject to capital gains tax.Cryptos “lack the traits of sovereign currencies,” according to a draft G-20 communique obtained by Bloomberg. The G-20 ministers are scheduled to discuss the issue in full Tuesday afternoon.“Whether you call it crypto assets, crypto tokens -- definitely not cryptocurrencies -- let that be clear a message as far as I’m concerned,” said Klaas Knot, president of De Nederlandsche Bank NV, who also chairs the Financial Stability Board’s standard committee on the assessment of vulnerabilities. “I don’t think any of these cryptos satisfy the three roles money plays in an economy.”It’s already proving an issue in the U.S., where only a tiny fraction of Americans are reporting their crypto deals to the Internal Revenue Service, according to Credit Karma Inc. Less than 100 of the first 250,000 federal tax returns filed as of February 2018 included a declaration related to crypto gains and losses, it found.While few officials at the G-20 were talking about cryptos six months ago, it’s been hard to escape this year, after one of the wildest investment manias in history that’s led to worries about money laundering, cyberthefts, excessive speculation and more. The Financial Stability Board, which is chaired by Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, warned Sunday the rapid growth of cryptocoins such as Bitcoin may one day make them a threat to the financial system.Countries are keen to set up an international regulatory framework while the crypto industry is still in its early stages, hoping to avoid a repeat over how to tax tech giants like Alphabet Inc.Read More: On G-20 Agenda, a Shared Desire to Calm Down Crypto: QuickTakeHere are some developments and comments over the past week on the issue:— With assistance by Yoshiaki Nohara, Carolina Millan, Raymond Colitt, and Jorgelina Do Rosario

2018-03-23T15:29:03.918Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-23/cryptojackers-storm-sweden-to-gain-edge-in-mining-for-riches
Hooked-in Sweden is becoming a haven for cryptojackers siphoning off capacity and energy to mine for digital currencies.The number of such attacks surged an estimated 10,100 percent in the biggest Nordic economy in the fourth quarter, about double the jump globally, according to Symantec Corp.’s 2018 Internet Security Threat Report.And the thing is, it’s not even illegal. “Cryptojacking where you install a program without my permission and steal capacity is very impolite,” said Ola Rehnberg, head of Nordic Enterprise Security at Symantec. “But not a crime in itself. So the hacker takes a very small risk."But it does cost society. Coinmining can slow down devices, overheat batteries, and in some cases, render devices unusable. For enterprises, the virtual gold rush can put corporate networks at risk and inflate cloud central processing unit usage, adding cost.Rehnberg said the whole thing has become “an industry” where “hackers work 9-5, Monday to Friday and go on Christmas holidays."Read more: Bitcoin Mania Puts Cryptos in Sight of World Finance ChiefsThe coinmining trend in Sweden is partly due to the infiltration of websites, meaning that a website will steal capacity as long as you’re on it. But it can also happen through the more traditional route, where software is installed on a computer.Sweden is a good target because there’s great interest in Bitcoin, but also because the country is rich and people have fast, modern computers."This is a race,” Rehnberg said. “A faster computer enables a higher reward."Read more: Bitcoin ‘Sect’ Stuns Online Broker in Sweden With 50-Fold JumpAs digital currency prices soared the business has become very lucrative, though things could change rapidly.“Then the bad guys will find other ways to earn money," said Rehnberg. At some point in the future they will target your home.

2018-03-19T17:34:43.281Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-19/bitcoin-bust-reminds-morgan-stanley-of-nasdaq-crash-but-faster
Bitcoin has long been compared to the dot-com bubble. Morgan Stanley says its recent moves are similar to the tech boom and bust, but on steroids.Bitcoin’s recent moves almost mirror that of the Nasdaq Composite Index in the lead-up to and aftermath of 2000, but at 15 times the speed, Morgan Stanley said. The Nasdaq climbed 278 percent in 519 days in the rally leading up to its high in March 2000, while Bitcoin soared 248 percent in 35 days in the last leg of the rally to its $19,511 high in December, according to the report.There have been three waves of weakness since Bitcoin peaked in December, with prices falling between 45 percent and 50 percent each time, before rebounding. The Nasdaq’s bear market from 2000 had five price declines, averaging a similar 44 percent.The bear market also looks similar on the way up. There have been two Bitcoin bear market rallies of 43 percent on average, while the Nasdaq bear market rallies averaged 40 percent.Bear markets are nothing new for the first decentralized digital currency. Since the coin’s creation in 2009 there have been four bear markets with price declines ranging from 28 percent to 92 percent. From the December peak to the most recent low on February, Bitcoin’s price fell by 70 percent, “nothing out of the ordinary,” Morgan Stanley said.The previous Bitcoin bear markets have last five months on average, after rallying for two to three months, but “the small number of historical examples and variability of each of the bear markets make it difficult to assume that the current bear market may take the same time period,” Morgan Stanley strategist Sheena Shah wrote.All the past bitcoin bear markets have seen rising trading volumes at the trough relative to the peak, while rallies prior to most bear markets have seen falling trading volumes, according to the report. Since December 2017, Bitcoin trade volumes have risen by almost 300 percent, the report said.“Rising trade volumes are thus not an indication of more investor activity but instead a rush to get out,” Shah wrote.— With assistance by Luke Kawa

2018-03-20T14:13:41.629Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/bitcoin-bull-tom-lee-says-alt-coin-bear-market-is-largely-over
The bear market for smaller cryptocurrencies known as alt-coins is over, according to Fundstrat Global Advisors LLC. But don’t expect the rally to resume just yet.The firm’s measure of alt-coins shows a 75 percent decline in the group over the past 64 days. The rout comes after a 62-day rally pushed them to unprecedented heights. Based on the trajectories of three previous alt-coin bear markets, where the selloffs lasted roughly as long as the surges that preceded them, Fundstrat says the likelihood that the current drop has ended is high.While the bulk of the decline is over, a bull market for the coins, which include tokens such as Eos and Dash, isn’t necessarily underway, strategists including Thomas Lee, Robert Sluymer and Sam Doctor wrote in a note to investors Tuesday.In prior cycles, alt-coins go through “purgatories,” or periods of consolidation, that last 70 to 231 days, the report said. Until then, investors should stay in larger cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin, according to Fundstrat.“We believe the current purgatory period will last for 150-175 days, implying a bull market for alt-coins really starts mid-August to mid-September,” according to the report. “The reason for this longer duration is the current dark clouds overhanging crypto are really alt-coin specific.”The cryptocurrency market has been under pressure this year as regulators globally have cracked down on digital assets trading and initial coin offerings, the fundraising mechanism where startups sell digital tokens. The Securities and Exchange Commission sent a number of subpoenas to ICO teams it suspects are breaking securities regulations.For more on cryptocurrencies, check out the Decrypted  podcast:

2018-03-23T12:12:26.249Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-23/telegram-seen-successful-in-boosting-crypto-sale-to-1-7-billion
Messaging service Telegram Group Inc., which smashed the world record for selling a new cryptocurrency in February, is on track to raise another $850 million as its initial coin offering extends toward a third month, according to three people familiar with the matter.Investors are placing sufficient orders in the second round even after the token was priced at more than triple last month’s level, two of the people said, asking not to be identified as the offer is private. Appetite for crypto-assets has cooled somewhat since market leader Bitcoin failed to return to its January highs, they explained.The comments signal that the ICO is going mostly according to plan for Pavel Durov, the self-exiled Russian entrepreneur who founded the encrypted-chat app with his mathematician brother Nikolai in 2013 and now boasts 200 million users from Iran to Brazil.For a deeper look into the world’s biggest initial coin offering, click here.The firm, registered in the British Virgin Islands, is finding enough interest among a global pool of investors who have been rocked by a volatile token market and whose skeptics say they doubt the Durovs can meet their goal to speed transactions processing toward a level of Visa or Mastercard.Telegram raised $850 million from large investors last month, selling rights to virtual coins called Grams at $0.38 apiece, according to a filing. The second round is targeting another $850 million at $1.33 apiece this month, according to the company documents seen by Bloomberg News. Telegram didn’t respond to Bloomberg inquiries seeking comment.The company is seeking to build is own blockchain network with Gram built-in, enabling much faster transactions speed than rival networks run for Bitcoin and Ethereum. It’s raising funds to build this network, rent servers, boost the number of users and pay operating expenses, the documents say.The impact of Telegram’s ICO will be “a double-edged sword,” said Darren Franceschini, chief executive officer of Blockchain Technologies Consulting in Canada.“It will show that there is room for established businesses to join this space with a capital raise of their own,” he said. “It will unfortunately also provide a new sense of possibility amongst others when it comes to their raising capabilities that may further saturate the market.”Demand in the ICO’s second round is lower than for the first, and some investors were given extra time to produce the funds, two of the people said.Earlier this week, a Russian regulator said that Telegram must provide its encryption codes to the Federal Security Service within 15 days, under anti-terrorism laws, and may block the messenger should it fail to comply. Telegram had just lost a bid before Russia’s Supreme Court to continue denying access.— With assistance by Olga Voitova, and Camila Russo

2018-03-21T14:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-21/blockchain-growing-pains-show-there-s-no-ledger-to-rule-them-all
Messaging app developer Kik Interactive, which raised about $100 million last year to launch services on the Ethereum blockchain, discovered that the ledger technology isn’t ready for prime time.The company is shifting some of its business onto a different digital ledger, one called Stellar, and also building a custom blockchain using Orbs technology, explaining that no existing system is a perfect fit.Kik wanted to run its messaging app used by millions of teens entirely on Ethereum, but found it was often congested, with slow transaction confirmation times and high costs. A big part of the problem: CryptoKitties, a blockchain-linked app that lets users breed digital cats but whose skyrocketing popularity has clogged up Ethereum.“There’s a lot of great innovation happening around cryptocurrency, but there are some inherent limitations to consumer adoption,” Tanner Philp, Kik’s director of corporate development, said in a phone interview. “We launched on Ethereum in September and quickly started to run into these limitations.”Kik is just the latest blockchain migrant. For instance, Sirin Labs, which issued a token on Ethereum and was initially focused on creating a phone that would use the IOTA digital ledger, in February said it would integrate with Cardano.As startups try to build applications on blockchains, they’re discovering the technologies all have pros and cons. None solve every problem. Ethereum, for instance, is good for issuing tokens. Stellar might be good for cross-border payments. Hundreds of different digital ledgers already exist, and new ones appear almost daily. Many of these ledgers are copies of older technologies, like Bitcoin and Ethereum, with some new features added in.“Different blockchains have different properties, and have different teams working on them and they have different road maps,” Jerry Brito, executive director of the Coin Center advocacy group, said in a phone interview. “It makes sense sometimes to move to another.”

2018-03-19T04:14:35.403Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-19/bitcoin-rises-from-six-week-low-as-g-20-weighs-cryptocurrencies
A weekend selloff cryptocurrencies subsided, with Bitcoin rallying from a six-week low before Group of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors discuss digital assets in Buenos Aires.Bitcoin traded at $8,235 as of 11:20 a.m. in Hong Kong, up 12 percent from its low reached over the weekend, according to prices on Bitstamp. Rival coins Ripple and Ether also pared weekend losses. Traders are watching this week’s G-20 meeting for any signs of a coordinated clampdown by regulators, who have been stepping up scrutiny of digital assets in recent months amid concerns ranging from money laundering to tax evasion and fraud. While cryptocurrencies are currently too small an asset class to pose systemic risks to the financial system, that may change as the space continues its rapid evolution, Mark Carney, chairman of the Financial Stability Board, said in a letter to G-20 finance leaders published Sunday.“The biggest concern the regulators have is just that they don’t want unsuspecting consumers to get caught up in something they’re not familiar with, so they’re always erring on the side of caution,” Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia Pacific with Oanda Corp., said in a phone interview from Singapore.Read more on Carney’s letter to G-20 leaders here.In the meantime, individual investors have been looking for opportunities to “buy dips,” Innes said. “I don’t think that mentality is going to pull up any time soon. Right now the guideposts markets are using for support is around $7,500 and $11,000 on the top side.”

2018-03-21T19:49:20.642Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-21/google-is-said-to-work-on-its-own-blockchain-related-technology
Google is working on blockchain-related technology to support its cloud business and head off competition from emerging startups that use the heavily-hyped technology to operate online in new ways, according to people familiar with the situation.Companies use blockchain and other so-called digital ledgers to securely record transactions and process other data over the internet -- a service Google could use, for example, to reassure customers that their information is protected when stored on the giant network of computer servers that power its cloud services.The Alphabet Inc. unit is developing its own distributed digital ledger that third parties can use to post and verify transactions, one of the people said. Although the timing of any product release is unclear, the company plans to offer this to differentiate its cloud service from rivals. It will also provide a white-label version that other companies can run on their own servers, the person added.The internet giant has also been acquiring and investing in startups with digital ledger expertise. Many of the deals haven’t been announced, the person said. Still, Alphabet was a leading corporate investor in the field last year, ahead of Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to research firm CB Insights.Several people in Google’s infrastructure group, which reports to cloud chief Diane Greene, have been tinkering with blockchain protocols in recent months, according to another person familiar with the company. Other Google insiders said recently that the cloud business is a natural place for blockchain-related services. The people asked not to be identified talking about the subject because the company isn’t ready to make an announcement yet.“Like many new technologies, we have individuals in various teams exploring potential uses of blockchain but it’s way too early for us to speculate about any possible uses or plans,” a Google spokesman said.In 2016, Google started a trial for developers testing blockchain services on its cloud. The company is now exploring much more expansive ways to deploy the technology, the people said.Digital ledgers like blockchain power Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. They are databases that are updated regularly across thousands of computers over the internet. Each entry is confirmed by these machines, which can be part of public networks or run privately by companies. There are different kinds of digital ledgers -- blockchain is only one. Data crunched by this technology range from transactions to supply-chain updates to digital cats.The technology presents challenges and opportunities for Google. Distributed networks of computers that run digital ledgers can eliminate risks that come with information held centrally by a single company. While Google’s security is strong, it’s one of the largest holders of information in the world. The decentralized approach is also beginning to support new online services that compete with Google.Still, the company is an internet pioneer and has long experience embracing new and open web standards. To build its ledger, Google has looked at technology from the Hyperledger consortium, but it could opt for another type that may be easier to scale to run millions of transactions, one of the people familiar with the situation said."Any time there’s a paradigm shift like this, there’s an opportunity for new giants to emerge -- but also for incumbents to adopt the new approach," said Elad Gil, a startup investor who worked on early mobile projects at Google more than a decade ago.Sridhar Ramaswamy, Google’s advertising chief, said at a recent conference that his division has a "small team" looking at blockchain, but noted the existing core technology can’t handle a lot of transactions quickly. Some marketing firms have started to explore blockchain’s potential to facilitate digital ad buying without using Google and Facebook Inc., the two dominant industry players.When Alphabet wants to keep up with emerging technology, it often backs startups in the field and makes small acquisitions to recruit talent. GV, Alphabet’s venture capital arm, has invested in wallet service Blockchain Luxembourg, financial transactions network Ripple, cryptocurrency asset management platform LedgerX, international payments provider Veem and the now-defunct Buttercoin, according to CB Insights.IBM, Microsoft benefit the most from distributed ledger technologySource: WinterGreen Research Inc.Note: Figures shown are percent of total dollar salesAmong tech giants, IBM and Microsoft Corp. have so far led the charge in offering blockchain-related tools and letting companies tinker with digital ledgers using their cloud services. The market for blockchain products and services may grow from $706 million last year to more than $60 billion in 2024, according to WinterGreen Research. Cloud’s 800-pound gorilla, Amazon.com Inc., helps companies build blockchain applications, and Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg is looking at cryptocurrencies, encryption and other decentralized computing approaches.A slew of startups are trying to challenge Google’s online dominance by using digital ledgers. Brave is a web browser that competes with Google’s Chrome. Instead of running targeted ads, Brave uses blockchain technology to pay websites when people spend time there. BitClave lets people perform searches online, and get rewarded for seeing ads. Another project, Presearch, is also using blockchain to try to compete with Google’s search engine, according to a white paper by the startup."You’re going to see an unbelievable amount of R&D expenditures go into this," said Jeff Richards, a managing partner at venture firm GGV Capital. "Everybody learned from the internet and mobile that you can’t afford to wait."— With assistance by Joe Mayes

2018-03-22T20:44:02.256Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-22/top-regulator-frets-crypto-markets-could-be-full-of-manipulation
Add a top U.S. financial regulator to the list of people concerned that lightly policed cryptocurrency markets make easy targets for manipulators.Warding off market cheaters in digital currencies is among the Securities and Exchange Commission’s major concerns as it monitors those assets, according to Brett Redfearn, head of the regulator’s Division of Trading and Markets.“We are concerned about a lot of the issues around manipulation, whether it’s spoofing, or any other forms of market manipulation that are out there,” he said Thursday at an event in New York. “Spoofing, front running, wash trading, pump-and-dump, insider trading -- there’s a question of, how are they being watched out for?”Few cops are currently on the beat watching for rigging, in part because regulators are still trying to work out who’s responsible for what and also because it’s not clear they can do much until the exchanges register with them. Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, who run the Gemini exchange for Bitcoin and Ether, recently proposed that the industry start self-policing to help fill in the vacuum.Read More: What the World’s Governments Are Saying About CryptocurrenciesU.S. regulators are grappling with the “Wild West” of trading digital assets including Bitcoin, Ether and digital tokens. The SEC is examining a range of businesses in the nascent industry, including initial coin offerings -- or digital token sales that allow buyers to take a stake in companies -- as well as cryptocurrency-focused hedge funds and trading venues.The trading behaviors Redfearn mentioned are all banned in traditional financial markets -- ways of fooling the market about the right price for securities and pocketing ill-gotten gains or, in the case of insider trading, making a trading decision based on non-public information. While laws around these kinds of activities are clear when it comes to trading traditional securities, in cryptocurrencies the lines appear to be blurred.Other priorities when it comes to digital assets include preventing fraud, money laundering and theft, Redfearn said. He compared the nascent industry to the early days of electronic equity trading in the U.S., when certain rules were still unclear and electronic platforms weren’t all linked to one another. Regulators eventually stepped in to create new rules around how trading should happen in the new landscape.“There was a lot of evolution that had to take place,” Redfearn said. “And there’s no doubt in my mind that there’s more evolution that needs to take place in this space.”

2018-03-21T14:18:48.209Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-21/facebook-s-shareholders-are-disappointed
Oh Facebook.Everything, I like to say, is securities fraud. For instance, if you are a public company that suffers a massive data breach and exposes sensitive data about millions of customers without their consent, and that data is then used for nefarious purposes, and you find out about the breach, and then you wait for years to disclose it, and when you do disclose it your stock loses tens of billions of dollars of market value, then shareholders are going to sue you for not telling them earlier, and probably the Securities and Exchange Commission is going to look into it as well. (In fact the SEC recently issued guidance about when you have to disclose a data breach.) The underlying bad thing that you did -- not keep your data safe -- is just an input into a function whose result is "securities fraud."But the result is always "securities fraud," whatever the nature of the underlying input. An undisclosed data breach is securities fraud, but an undisclosed sexual-harassment problem or chicken-mispricing conspiracy will get you to the same place. There is an important practical benefit to a legal regime that works like this: It makes it easy to punish bad behavior, at least by public companies, because every sort of bad behavior is also securities fraud. You don't have to prove that the underlying chicken-mispricing conspiracy was illegal, or that the data breach was due to bad security procedures. All you have to prove is that it happened, and it wasn't disclosed, and the stock went down when it was. The evaluation of the badness is in a sense outsourced to the market: We know that the behavior was illegal, not because there was a clear law against it, but because the stock went down. Securities law is an all-purpose tool for punishing corporate badness, a one-size-fits-all approach that makes all badness commensurable using the metric of stock price. It has a certain efficiency.On the other hand it sometimes makes me a little uneasy that so much of our law ends up working this way. "In a world of dysfunctional government and pervasive financial capitalism," I once wrote, "more and more of our politics is contested in the form of securities regulation." And: "Our government's duty to its citizens is mediated by their ownership of our public companies." When you punish bad stuff because it is bad for shareholders, you are making a certain judgment about what sort of stuff is bad and who is entitled to be protected from it. Anyway Facebook Inc. wants to make it very clear that it did not suffer a data breach. When a researcher got data about millions of Facebook users without those users' explicit permission, and when the researcher turned that data over to Cambridge Analytica for political targeting in violation of Facebook's terms, none of that was a data breach. Facebook wasn't hacked. What happened was somewhere between a contractual violation and ... you know ... just how Facebook works? There is some splitting of hairs over this, and you can understand why -- consider that SEC guidance about when companies have to disclose data breaches -- but in another sense it just doesn't matter. You don't need to know whether the thing was a "data breach" to know how bad it was. You can just look at the stock price. The stock went down:The social media giant has lost over $60 billion in market value over the past two days, following revelations that personal data of millions of users was obtained by a data analytics firm. And so, whatever other problems it has -- the Federal Trade Commission is examining Facebook's compliance with a 2012 consent decree about user privacy, and various members of Congress are gearing up to investigate -- Facebook has a securities-disclosure problem:Facebook Inc.’s failure to safeguard privacy was blamed in an investor lawsuit for a slump in its share price that followed the revelation user data was harvested without permission by a research firm connected to U.S. President Donald Trump.The world’s largest social media network was sued in San Francisco federal court on Tuesday by shareholders in a class action who said they suffered losses after the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based firm that aided Trump, improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users.You can read the article for more about the lawsuit's allegations -- "defendants made false or misleading statements and failed to disclose that Facebook violated its own data privacy policies by allowing third parties access to personal data of millions of Facebook users without their consent," etc. -- but, again, it doesn't matter. Thing happened, thing wasn't disclosed, thing was disclosed, stock went down. It is a simple legal system but it has its uses. But also its oddities. At worst, Facebook is accused of violating tens of millions of users' privacy, and of doing so in a way that subverted democracy and frayed America's social fabric. Perhaps someone will investigate and punish Facebook on behalf of those users or that democracy and social fabric. But certainly someone will investigate and punish Facebook on behalf of its shareholders. Elsewhere, Sarah Frier: "How Facebook Made Its Cambridge Analytica Data Crisis Even Worse." And Paul Ford: "Facebook Is Why We Need a Digital Protection Agency." And Emily Stewart: "Banks have to know their customers. Shouldn’t Facebook and Twitter?"The petro conspiracy.Ahahahaha the Venezuelan petro, the world's dumbest cryptocurrency, is somehow dumber than I thought: "A TIME investigation has found Moscow’s fingerprints all over the creation of the petro, a scheme that reveals the range of Russia’s efforts to fight back against U.S. sanctions." According to an executive at a Russian state bank who deals with cryptocurrencies, senior advisers to the Kremlin have overseen the effort in Venezuela, and President Vladimir Putin signed off on it last year. “People close to Putin, they told him this is how to avoid the sanctions,” says the executive, who spoke to TIME on condition of anonymity. “This is how the whole thing started.”Sure. Good lord. How did that conversation go?Putin's gamer nephew: Uncle Vlad, we can evade U.S. sanctions using the blockchain.Putin: ...PGN: Smart contracts via crypto make this super doable.P: ...PGN: Don't let FUD hold you back from doing an ICO.P: ...PGN: Let's get some crypto and HODL!P: ...PGN: ...P: Look, whatever, but why don't we let Venezuela try it first and see how it goes.It seems to be going terribly, but that's only because it is terrible. "In recent weeks the authorities in Moscow seem to have cooled on the idea of an official cryptoruble."Elsewhere in terrible crypto things, "German researchers have discovered unknown persons are using bitcoin’s blockchain to store and link to child abuse imagery, potentially putting the cryptocurrency in jeopardy." I am not quite sure what that means practically or how seriously to take it, but the question the researchers raise is, if you run a bitcoin mining or trading business in which you download and store blockchain data, are you illegally downloading child pornography? Man, I do not know, and I am not going to give you legal advice, but ... maybe someone should? Like, "does this business require me to possess illegal child pornography" is a question I would want to answer definitively before getting into any new line of business.Elsewhere in silly crypto things, here's a "live air drop," come on. And here is an "Initial Chocolate Coin Offering," come on. And here is GoGo Chicken:The company uses tracking devices and facial recognition technology to follow the movement of free-range chickens, from hatching to packaging, on hundreds of farms across China. Poultry are fitted with tracking devices on their legs and the data are logged using a blockchain ledger — an unalterable record that underlies cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin.That article begins: "An insurance company in China is looking to shake up the country’s chicken supply chain — using blockchain technology." I have to say that it is an incredible testament to the power of blockchain evangelism that the first sentence of the article is about blockchain technology, and not chicken facial recognition technology. Chicken facial recognition technology is some wild sci-fi stuff! I don't think I could reliably recognize a chicken's face if I had it in front of me; I am blown away that artificial intelligence has advanced to the point that it can. Blockchain technology, meanwhile, is just a somewhat new way to run a database. But if you want to impress people you don't focus on your uncanny automated chicken-recognition abilities. You give the people what they want, and what they want, always, is blockchain blockchain blockchain.Unicorns are worried about VC diversity.Here is a story about technology entrepreneurs who don't want to be given money by "a bunch of white guys" anymore, and who have joined together to demand that the venture capital industry diversify. The group is called "Founders for Change," and "in a statement underlining the importance of diversity in the tech industry, the tech executives said the racial and gender makeup of a venture capital firm would be 'an important consideration' when they were raising money."There is an old-fashioned way of looking at the world where, if you have an idea, and you meet with someone and tell him your idea, and he offers to give you millions of dollars to build that idea, he is doing you a favor, and you should be grateful and not quibble too much with the racial and gender makeup of his investing team. I think that was a standard way to think about venture capital not too long ago. Now things have changed. This is in part a story about values -- about the importance that founders personally place on diversity -- but it is also, obviously, a story about power. One thing I think about sometimes is that the power balance between entrepreneurs who come up with ideas and capital sources who come up with money to fund those ideas is tilting in favor of the entrepreneurs these days. SoftBank and Fidelity and whoever else are lining up to throw money at startups; capital is plentiful and ideas are scarce and valuable. It is easy to imagine a world -- a world described in corporate-finance textbooks -- in which the people who have the money use it to buy control, and get to tell the companies whom they should employ. But in the current startup world, the people who found the companies tell the people who put up the money whom they should employ.Elsewhere: "This White Tech Guy Has an Idea to Make Tech Less White." And meanwhile in public companies, the sources of capital still matter, or at least assume that they do: The New York State Common Retirement Fund "intends to oppose the re-election of all directors at hundreds of U.S. corporate boards without a single woman."Taxes.Here is a story about how Larry Kudlow, the television personality who will now be the head of Donald Trump's National Economic Council, wants to index capital-gains taxes to inflation. The idea is that if you bought stock 20 years ago for $100 and sold it today for $200, you have $100 of nominal profit, but only some of that is real profit. That $200 today won't buy you twice as much stuff as the $100 you had 20 years ago. So taxing you on the full nominal profit seems unfair, and Kudlow wants to tax you only on the amount of profit above inflation: If you need $150 today to buy what $100 bought you 20 years ago, then your real capital gain is only $50 and you should only pay tax on that.One problem with this idea is that Kudlow apparently wants to implement it in a legally questionable way: It wasn't in the recent changes to the tax code that Congress passed, and so the plan is apparently to just have the executive branch implement it, which seems aggressive. ("Some believe Potus could do it as exec order," Kudlow told the Wall Street Journal.) Another problem with it is that it rather gratuitously cuts taxes on rich people: "Democrats have opposed it as a complicated change that would give rich people a windfall for no serious economic benefit," notes Jonathan Chait. But one thing that works in its favor is that it is rather intellectually satisfying. You really don't have $100 worth of gains; taxing you on the $100 of gains seems wrong. Not wrong morally -- any choice of how much to tax people to fund the government will feel morally arbitrary in places -- but just wrong intellectually. You should pay taxes on your economic income; indexing capital gains to inflation gets a bit closer -- in one part of the tax code -- to doing that.You occasionally see this problem in tax law: Do you make an intellectually satisfying change to the tax code that happens to cut taxes on rich people, or do you allow for some amount of sloppiness because the impacts of that sloppiness are felt mostly by rich people? On the one hand you have to get revenue from somewhere, and taxing unearned income of rich people in ways that are intellectually sloppy may be better, from the perspective of fairness and economic efficiency, than taxing the earned income of poor people. But there are obvious pressures that push in favor of intellectual satisfying tax cuts on rich people, specifically, (1) they are intellectually satisfying and (2) they are favored by rich people. It's a powerful combination.Uber.I wrote a little yesterday about how a self-driving Uber killed a pedestrian. A natural reaction to that event is to try to slow down self-driving car development, and I said that I'm not sure that reaction is correct, because "if self-driving Ubers fully replaced human-driven cars while still killing only one person -- or 10 people -- a day, then that would represent an enormous improvement in human welfare, even though Uber would be killing people every day."A lot of people emailed and tweeted to resist the hypothetical, pointing out that the self-driving Uber fatality rate currently seems to be higher (on a very small sample size) than the human-driver fatality rate. Okay? I suppose I should have been clearer that, if and when autonomous cars are safer than regular cars, that will be good for humanity. I presume that the people working on autonomous cars are trying to make them substantially safer than human-driven cars. I recognize that they're not there yet, which is why people are working on them, instead of rolling them out widely. Perhaps they'll never get there! Feel free to resist the hypothetical, but of course I agree that widespread adoption of more dangerous driverless cars would be bad?Anyway: "Uber Victim Stepped Suddenly in Front of Self-Driving Car." And: "Self-Driving Cars Keep Rolling Despite Uber Crash." And: "This week’s pedestrian fatality involving a self-driving car is likely to complicate efforts in Congress to speed the vehicles’ development by wiping away state safety regulations," which, yes, I can see how it would do that.Things happen.Peter Peterson, Lehman Exile Behind Blackstone, Dies at 91. John Paulson Returns Money From Gold, Special Situations Funds. Hong Kong Stock Market Holds Out Hope for Aramco Listing. Citigroup Says CEO Was Unaware of Loan When He Met With Kushner. BofA Dials Back on Some Stock Loans After $292 Million Loss. Steve Wynn Files to Sell, Opening Door to Takeover. US ire prompts Latvia to root out systemic failures on banking. Mozambique Unveils Debt-Restructuring Proposal. A Regulatory Framework for Exchange-Traded Funds. U.S. Starter Homes Are Scarcer, Pricier, Smaller and More Run-Down. As a Frenchman in banking, I’m appalled by the eating competitions of my British colleagues. Rangers pitcher Martin Perez gets revenge on bull that caused elbow injury: ‘I killed him and I ate him.’ If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-20T18:44:11.677Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/bitcoin-mania-puts-cryptos-in-sights-of-world-s-finance-chiefs
This time last year, finance chiefs from the world’s biggest economies were barely thinking about the niche industry of Bitcoin when they met in Germany. Now, they’re loudly warning cryptos could destabilize financial markets.U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and his counterparts gathered in Buenos Aires were fretting about the rapid rise of crypto assets at their first Group of 20 meeting of the year.“We dedicated a lot of time to crypto currencies,” Argentine central bank President Federico Sturzenegger told reporters after the meeting. “We were asked to have concrete recommendations regarding crypto currencies by July.”Cryptos rocketed up the G-20 agenda, after one of the wildest investment manias in history that’s led policy makers to worry about tax evasion, money laundering, terrorism, consumer protection and more. The industry could have financial stability implications at some point, they said in their final communique.Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Minoru Kihara said discussions centered on the functionality of cryptos. “For example, can people make settlements using them, or do people use them in terms of the value of their assets?”Bitcoin investors were expecting ministers to call for new rules on Tuesday even though it was the first time the group talked about the issue. Financial regulations usually take months, if not years, to be agreed. The digital currency jumped as much as 5.5 percent to $8,889 on the back of the news, after trading between $8,400 and $8,600 for the past day.“The market is very emotional since Bitcoin will either be a complete success or a complete failure, so it’s very quick to react to news like this," said Miguel Schweizer, chief risk officer of crypto currency hedge fund Quantia Capital in Buenos Aires.Discussions on the emerging industry kept delegation chiefs working down to the wire on Tuesday, one of the last issues to be put to bed in the group’s final communique. They ultimately confirmed their view that cryptos “lack the key attributes of sovereign currencies.” That decision has implications for tax evasion and collection, because it means trades potentially could be subject to capital gains tax.“I’d call them crypto assets as opposed to crypto currencies,” Canadian Finance Minister Bill Morneau said in an interview hours before the meeting concluded Tuesday. “The view of the people around the table” is “that we shouldn’t confuse what’s going on as being a currency.”Read More: When Is Bitcoin Not a Coin? When It’s an AssetThe rapid rise of initial coin offerings in the past year, a hacked exchange in Japan and extreme volatility in the market forced central bank chiefs and governments to put them on the agenda even though they stopped short of recommending regulation. The group called on standard-setting bodies to monitor and recommend policies, if needed.“A year ago initial coin offerings were too small for anyone to care too much about and now they’re too big to ignore,” said Greg Medcraft, director of financial and enterprise affairs at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.In BillionsSource: CoinDeskThe digital nature of crypto assets places it squarely on the agenda for international co-operation. Meanwhile, nations like the European Union and U.S. are already starting to develop their own national policies on cryptos. They’re also keen to develop a framework while the industry is still new, hoping to avoid a repeat over how to tax tech giants like Alphabet Inc. Ministers failed to reach consensus on the issue of digital taxation in Buenos Aires.Why Tech Giants May Have to Pay More Taxes in Europe: QuickTake“The stability argument is something that requires monitoring. The usage of these assets, backing other assets in futures, options, is something that we have to monitor,” Italian Central Bank Governor Ignazio Visco said on the sidelines of the meeting Tuesday.— With assistance by Theophilos Argitis, Jana Randow, Camila Russo, and Yoshiaki Nohara

2018-03-18T17:00:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-18/growth-of-crypto-assets-may-threaten-financial-system-fsb-says
The rapid evolution of crypto-assets such as Bitcoin may one day make them a threat to the financial system, Mark Carney, chairman of the Financial Stability Board, said in a letter to Group of 20 finance leaders.“Wider use and greater interconnectedness could, if it occurred without material improvements in conduct, market integrity and cyber resilience, pose financial stability risks through confidence effects,” Carney wrote. His letter, published on Sunday, was circulated for a meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors in Buenos Aires.Carney, who is also governor of the Bank of England, called earlier this month for more regulation to bring the era of cryptocurrency “anarchy” to an end. In his G-20 letter, Carney said the FSB would look for metrics and gaps in data to help monitor the growth of crypto-assets and identify emerging threats to financial stability.For now, crypto-assets don’t pose risks to financial stability, partly because they are still small relative to the financial system. Even at their recent peak, their combined global market value was less than 1 percent of global economic output, the FSB said. In addition, the assets aren’t substitutes for currency and aren’t much used for financial transactions, limiting their links to the rest of the financial system.Carney’s letter also said that by November, regulators will publish an assessment of post-crisis regulations on the use of clearinghouses in the global swaps market. The review will consider “whether there are unintended consequences, in particular relating to the costs and availability of clearing.”— With assistance by Silla Brush

2018-03-22T14:17:51.849Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-22/when-margin-loans-go-wrong
Margin lending.When a bank has a relationship with a trading client, that relationship tends to look like a bunch of contracts. There's a prime brokerage agreement that specifies how much money the bank will lend to the client and on what terms and for what collateral. There's an ISDA Master Agreement that specifies the terms on which the bank will do derivatives with the client. There are securities trades where the bank agrees to sell a bond to the client and the client agrees to give the bank money. They agree on the amount of money when they do the trade.When a bank has a relationship with an investment banking client, that relationship tends to look like a weird friendship. The investment banker who covers the client goes out to visit the client, and asks about the client's needs, and does a bunch of favors and free work for the client, all without asking anything in return. And then, just by the way, she also suggests a couple of companies that the client might want to consider acquiring, and hints that she might be available to advise on those transactions. And then the client, overcome with gratitude for all of her free work and advice, hires her to acquire one of those companies, and pays her millions of dollars for doing it. But there's no ISDA agreement specifying that the banker gets one merger mandate for every six free financial analyses she performs. It is a subtle gift economy, one in which the banker does everything she can to make it feel like a personal relationship rather than a business one.These distinctions are not at all absolute. Salespeople are constantly showering the trading clients with gifts -- fancy dinners and sports tickets but also free investment research -- to try to build up the trading relationships, and investment bankers are regularly entering into contracts -- engagement letters and nondisclosure agreements and financing commitments -- with the investment-banking clients. Still there does seem to be at least a rough useful distinction between the cultures, where trading is a bit more explicit than banking, where trading has counterparties while banking has clients, where trading is based on transactions while banking is based on favors, where the value of a banking client is in the personal relationship and the value of a trading client is in the collateral. Laura Keller has a terrific and harrowing story about Bank of America Corp.'s investigation into how it lost about $300 million on a margin loan to Christo Wiese, the former chairman of Steinhoff International Holdings NV, collateralized by his Steinhoff shares. (We have talked about that loan a couple of times before.) Part of what makes it such a white-knuckle read is just the obvious tension when any bank misplaces $300 million and senior executives start asking why: Someone is going to get in trouble, and everyone would prefer that it be someone else. Managers assumed someone would catch the blame, setting off a race to protect themselves, the people said. Senior risk officers wrote a memo that some people interpreted to blame bankers, the people said. The banking team argued the loss was a failure from multiple units, with some placing much of the responsibility on equities operatives because it’s their business to finance and manage margin loans. Some equities executives, in turn, said the risk department should have raised alarms if the lending was problematic.The bankers are in charge of the relationship and of due diligence; the failure of due diligence (and of the company!) is on them. The equities trading desk is in charge of making margin loans; the failure of the margin loan is on them. The risk department is in charge of monitoring risk; the failure of risk management is on them. That last one is particularly rich: One view of risk management is that a trader's job is to manage risk and that the risk department is there to support and supervise that effort. Another view is that a trader's job is to take as much risk as he can get away with and that the risk department is the only place that should think about risk management. If your bank takes the latter view, you will have rather less risk management.But there is also a more specific tension between the banking culture and the trading culture that I, as someone who once sort of sat in between them, was uncomfortable reading:The risk managers suggested bankers should explain proposed transactions rather than advocate for their approval, the people said. They cited an email a banker wrote when the loan to Wiese was proposed. The banker said the firm could quickly readjust the loan if an emergency began to arise, thanks to strong contact with Wiese and his relationships with Alex Wilmot-Sitwell and Richard Gush, senior bankers then overseeing Europe and South Africa, respectively, according to an excerpt reviewed by Bloomberg.Oh no. That is not how margin loans work. A margin loan is a contract. You lend someone hundreds of millions of dollars with a trigger that allows you to blow him out if his stock drops too much. If the stock then drops too much, sure, fine, yes, you call him up and ask him if he's going to post more margin. Maybe you even give him a little more time to post the margin than is strictly allowed by the contract. But if he doesn't answer the phone, you just blow him out.When your collateral is vanishing and your counterparty's business is collapsing and you have hundreds of millions of dollars at risk, that is the time when you really want to have rights. You really want to be able to do what you need to do to protect yourself, whether or not your counterparty is happy about it. What you don't want, at that point, is a relationship. You don't want to call up your counterparty, get his voicemail, and leave a message like "hey buddy just checking in, have some questions for you about that margin loan, please give me a call back as soon as you get this." Because when your collateral is vanishing and you are desperate to reach him is exactly the time when he is going to turn off his phone.No trader, no risk manager, wants to approve a risky trade on the basis that you can always call up the client and change the trade if it goes wrong. The traders are going to want the protections built into the trade; they're going to want a brutal contract that gives the bank unlimited rights to act in its own interests if anything goes wrong. The bankers, on the other hand, will find that offensive. Why insult the client like that? Give him a gentle contract that doesn't assume the worst, and then, if the worst does happen, rely on the friendly relationship that you have built up with him over time. That is a natural mentality to have if you spend your time building relationships and then being paid fees for services; it is less natural if you spend your time sitting at a desk risking capital. When the bankers are powerful enough to import the relationship mentality onto the trading desk, you get trades like this.Another extremely recognizable anecdote:Reached by Bloomberg, [Wilmot-Sitwell] said he wasn’t aware of the banker’s email and disputed the depth it implied of his relationship with Wiese. He said he didn’t have responsibility for covering Wiese’s or Steinhoff’s banking needs.Ha! The bankers wanted to get the trade done so they dropped the names of a senior banker who was close with the client and could serve as, like, an internal guarantor of the trade. That senior banker, meanwhile, wasn't that close with the client and didn't know he was being used that way.The crypto.Look, I am not a knee-jerk crypto-skeptic. I write a lot about the rubes and hucksters and scams in the cryptocurrency sector, but there are also sophisticated investors, many of whom have deep experience in traditional technology venture-capital investing, who are bringing that sophistication and experience to the crypto space. These investors aren't chasing pointless fads; they understand the transformative power of blockchain technology, and are investing in the revolutionary infrastructure that will underpin the future of the internet, the financial system, and the world as a whole. Here, for instance, is a blog post from Union Square Ventures about how it is investing in ... oh, wait ... oh it's CryptoKitties, never mind:At USV, we think digital collectibles is one of many amazing things that blockchains enable that literally could not be done before this technology emerged.We also think digital collectibles and all of the games they enable will be one of the first, if not the first, big consumer use cases for blockchain technologies.So, one, I am not convinced that there were no pre-blockchain digital collectibles -- I think a lot of gamers would disagree with that -- but more importantly, "X literally could not be done before blockchain" is not an especially good argument for X. The question is: Should X have been done before blockchain? Were people really sitting around back in the dark ages of 2006 saying "sure I can get an animated cat on my computer screen but so can anyone else; what I need is a rare animated cat"? Maybe? I don't know anything anymore.Elsewhere here is "Buy Bitcoins Without Risk of Losing Money: A Guide to Responsible Investing." I know, I laughed too, but it's actually a straightforward and well-known strategy, which is, if you have $10,000 to invest for five years, you spend some of it buying a risk-free security (classically, a Treasury Strip) that matures at $10,000 in five years, and then -- because that Strip costs something like $8,750 today -- you spend the rest buying the risky thing that you really want to buy. (Or, more classically, at-the-money call options on the risky thing.) If you don't think too hard about it -- about time value of money or opportunity cost or liquidity risk or the actual slope of the payoff graph -- then this sort of looks like getting the upside of Bitcoin without the risk of losing money. I am not saying it's a good idea -- this is not investment advice -- but I am saying that it's a good pitch.It's also sort of a standard pitch in the rest of the financial world, and one I haven't really seen in the Bitcoin world. One slightly more sophisticated variant on it, in the rest of the financial world, is the structured note: Instead of just telling clients to buy Strips and options to get the asymmetric payoff profile that they want, you can take the clients' money, use some of it to buy Strips, some of it to buy options and some of it to pay yourself a fee, and guarantee the clients the asymmetric payoff profile that you think they want. Really who wouldn't want a Bitcoin structured note that gives you your money back if Bitcoin goes down, but gives you Bitcoin's upside if Bitcoin goes up? Isn't that better than just buying Bitcoin? Please do not answer that.The trick is the marketing: The term "structured note" is in a bit of disrepute these days, while blockchain and crypto and coins and tokens are all very hot. Don't call this thing a "structured note"; call it a "stablecoin," or an "enhanced stablecoin" or something. Don't put the Strips and options into a bankruptcy-remote special-purpose vehicle; put them on the blockchain. Don't just have a contract with investors promising them their payout; have a smart contract with investors automating that payout. Make it crypto enough to attract crypto types, but Treasury-Strip-like enough to attract people who want to keep their money, and you can't lose.Elsewhere, here's a new plan for a pointless stablecoin:The currency aims to avoid the wild price swings of many cryptocurrencies by tethering itself to reserves deposited in a basket of fiat currencies at commercial banks. Holders of Saga will be able to claim their money back by cashing in the cryptocurrency. If your cryptocurrency requires you to trust banks to give you fiat currency, you could just have a bank account. What problem does this solve? If you trust fiat currencies to hold their value better than cryptocurrencies, and you trust commercial banks to keep your deposits safe, why slather an extra layer of blockchain guff over your fiat bank deposits? And here's "What the First Token Hostile Takeover Could Look Like." The key steps are (1) do a fork where you distriute new tokens to holders of the old token that you are trying to take over and then (2) announce an incentive in which you will give extra new tokens "to users that burn (i.e. send to provably unspendable addresses) their existing OLD tokens," which if your new fork is popular enough will cause most of the old tokens to disappear. And here is a story about efforts by a crypto startup called Mainframe to get around securities restrictions on initial coin offerings by dropping tokens out of balloons at cryptocurrency conferences, which, no, just no. And here is Emin Gün Sirer on claims about child pornography on the blockchain.Elon Musk.What does Elon Musk's utility function look like? Yesterday Tesla Inc. shareholders approved a comically large pay package designed to keep Musk employed as Tesla's chief executive officer. When we last talked about this pay package I mentioned how superfluous it seems to be. If Musk hits all of his revenue and earnings targets over the next 10 years, and grows Tesla to be worth $650 billion, then he could make more than $50 billion from his new package. But if Musk grows Tesla to be worth $650 billion over the next 10 years -- whether or not he hits those revenue and earnings targets -- then he will make more than $130 billion just from the Tesla shares he already owns. The extra $50 billion on top of the $130 billion would be nice, I guess, but ... how? Like what will he do with it? Buy more flamethrowers?You can sort of see Tesla's reason for giving him the extra $50 billion: He doesn't need to be CEO to keep his existing shares, which are worth billions of dollars, but he does need to stick around in management to get the extra $50 billion. It's designed to keep him at his job, "a sum so large it might just ensure that Musk’s array of other passions and esoteric side projects won’t steal too much time from his work at Tesla." But what's in it for Musk? He is fabulously wealthy now. If he stayed at Tesla without this pay package and made Tesla worth $650 billion, he would be ridiculously, world-historically wealthy. If he stays at Tesla with this pay package and makes Tesla worth $650 billion, then, you know, same. He has tethered himself to Tesla in exchange for amounts of money that, while comically large to me or you or the average billionaire, are still quite small compared to his existing fortune in most relevant states of the world. I sort of don't understand why Tesla is paying him in money, or rather shares, both of which are things he has a lot of. They should promise to, like, send him to Mars (and bring him back), or make him immortal, or something. I guess that is hard to commit to.Really what Tesla is doing here is not motivating Musk with money, but expressing -- awkwardly but earnestly -- its love for him. That is hard to do in thoughtful ways. What do you get a man who has everything? How do you buy a thoughtful gift for a billionaire aficionado of rocket ships and sports cars and flamethrowers? At some point, the only way to express your love for him is with more money, even if that's the last thing he needs.People are worried about bond market liquidity.Here is some very classic bond-market-liquidity worrying, specifically the exchange-traded-fund flavor:Investors are shorting the shares of some ETFs that buy securities like high-yield debt, which may be hard to sell if markets turned suddenly, a fear stoked by increased volatility this year. ...ETF shares are created by so-called authorized participants—broker dealers who buy the securities that make up an index tracked by a fund and exchange them for new ETF shares.When investors want to redeem their shares, the process works in reverse and the ETF must sell the securities. If market liquidity tumbles, some investors worry that the funds won’t find buyers for those bonds.Man, just last month we talked about record outflows from a big corporate bond ETF, and how corporate-bond trading prices were basically unchanged by those withdrawals. When investors wanted to get out of bond ETFs, they did, and everything was fine. Those big withdrawals were in investment-grade bond funds, not high-yield, and of course tomorrow can always be different from yesterday, but, you know, it is evidence. "The whole worry that bond ETFs were going to cause a liquidity crisis seems increasingly embarrassing and we should probably never talk about it again," I wrote, but in my heart I knew that was a vain hope and that we will never stop talking about how bond ETFs are going to cause a liquidity crisis. Things happen.Fed Raises Rates and Signals Faster Pace in Coming Years. Powell’s Fed Debut Shows Shift Away From Theory, Models. Tech Giants Face Hundreds of Millions in New Taxes in Europe. Saudis Hunting for Deals Plan to Meet Amazon, Apple, Google. Citi Says Kushner Cos. Loan Was ‘Completely Appropriate.’ For the First Time, Goldman's Not Among the Top Commodity Banks. Dropbox Raises Expected Valuation Range Ahead of IPO. Wynn Cuts Stake in Casino Company After Settlement With Ex-Wife. Uber Autonomous Accident Video Shows Car Just Before Collision. Felix Salmon on risk parity at roboadvisors. Zuckerberg Breaks Silence on Facebook Crisis as Criticism Grows. Matt Yglesias: "While there are a lot of philanthropists out there who could donate to charities, there’s only one person who can truly 'fix' Facebook by doing away with it." Alexandra Scaggs: "While Facebook is a fundamentally misanthropic venture that pretends to be a community, smoking is a community activity for people who pretend to be misanthropes." "A group of American exchange students in Italy caused a fire after attempting to cook pasta without water."If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-16T00:01:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/bitcoin-s-death-cross-looms-as-strategist-eyes-2-800-level
The tea leaves don’t bode well for Bitcoin.Traders who look for future price direction in chart patterns are finding more indicators suggesting the world’s largest digital currency may have further to fall.Bitcoin’s 50-day moving average has dropped to the closest proximity to its 200-day moving average in nine months. Crossing below that level -- something it hasn’t done since 2015 -- signals fresh weakness to come for technical traders who would dub such a move a "death cross." Another moving-average indicator of momentum has already turned bearish.While many cryptocurrency investors don’t follow technical analysis, the digital-coin universe is drawing interest from professional traders who pay growing attention to the indicators, after the token vaulted to a record in December.“There’s been a definitive shift over the past couple of months after the bubble activity at the end of 2017,” said Paul Day, a technical analyst and head of futures and options at Market Securities Dubai Ltd.The strategist studied the virtual currency’s 2013 tumble for clues on how it may act this time round. His conclusion? Gear up for a 76 percent tumble from late February highs, which would take Bitcoin to a paltry $2,800, if the downtrend is repeated. Bitcoin fell 2.2 percent to $8,120 at 11:17 a.m. in London, according to Bitstamp prices.Regardless, Bitcoin investors had better make peace with volatility, which is often tied to regulatory and security risks.For an update on U.S. regulatory enforcement, please click here.When the currency’s 50-day moving average last hovered below the longer measure, during the first 10 months 2015, its performance was lackluster. It fell 5.2 percent in that period, and then rallied 43 percent through year-end from the day it broke back above the resistance level.It has remained above that line ever since 2015 and racked up three successive annual gains in the process.“There is an element of charting and technical analysis being used in Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies trading, considering the professional bodies now entering the market,” said Daire Ferguson at Irish currency platform AvaTrade Ltd, adding that regulatory policies would bind the fortunes of digital tokens.— With assistance by Dave Liedtka

2018-03-22T05:01:22.734Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-22/is-your-blockchain-business-doomed
Blockchain, the technology behind Bitcoin and Ether, can securely record transactions, store huge amounts of data forever, and offer transparency by letting anyone view the information it contains. That makes it ideal for virtual currencies and some applications in insurance, health care, and other industries—and a thorny problem for a new European law on privacy.Under the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, companies will be required to completely erase the personal data of any citizen who requests that they do so. For businesses that use blockchain, specifically applications with publicly available data trails such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, truly purging that information could be impossible. “Some blockchains, as currently designed, are incompatible with the GDPR,” says Michèle Finck, a lecturer in EU law at the University of Oxford. EU regulators, she says, will need to decide whether the technology must be barred from the region or reconfigure the new rules to permit an uneasy coexistence.Compliance headaches could afflict thousands of companies. More than 1,000 apps are being built on the Ethereum blockchain alone, according to the stateofthedapps.com directory. “I think it will impede some of the applications,” Greg McMullen, a lawyer based in Germany and blockchain expert, says of the law. “We’ll get a bit of a reality check on what the right kinds of applications are to build on a blockchain.”Under GDPR, the definition of personal data is deliberately a very broad one. In principle, it covers any information that relates to an identifiable, living individual, such as a person’s name or social security number. But it could also include any type of data that could directly or indirectly identify an individual.“Some of the most important areas of guidance have been issued in the last two, three, four months,” says Jules Polonetsky, chief executive officer of the Future of Privacy Forum, a privacy think tank that works with chief privacy officers, academics, and policymakers. “There’s a lot of detail, but still a lot of subjective interpretation.”It’s possible that even an individual’s public Bitcoin address—a string of letters and numbers used to send and receive the digital currency—could be considered personal information. “Encrypted data will often qualify as personal data and not as anonymous data,” the law firm Hogan Lovells said in a recent note. “This means that in most instances the privacy rules will be applicable to at least some of the data involved in blockchain systems.”Some companies may have to redesign their software and buy costly traditional databases to move any personally identifiable information they possess off a blockchain. That would help with compliance, but it could remove some of a blockchain’s benefits. It will be harder to ensure that documents stored outside a blockchain haven’t been tampered with, for example. And moving off a blockchain could be expensive, especially for startups. Maintaining their own databases costs more, and such companies might need to raise funds to build IT infrastructure.Not everyone sees GDPR as blockchain’s death knell. Some of the technology’s boosters say the features that appeal to blockchain users could be used to assist businesses in meeting the law’s requirements. “This is all something a blockchain can be quite helpful with,” says Brian Behlendorf, executive director of Hyperledger, a consortium of companies that builds blockchain software. Software provider Cambridge Blockchain and security company LuxTrust SA are testing this idea. Together they are developing software to help businesses—banks, for example—better manage personal data in compliance with “know-your-customer” rules. That information might have to be managed differently because of GDPR.The consequences for companies that can’t or don’t want to adapt could be huge. “I think you are going to see quite a few industries and companies completely pull out of Europe, and many that shut down, and you are going to see bankruptcies,” says Mark Rudnitsky, CEO of HealthHeart, a Chicago startup that’s working on managing electronic health records via the Ethereum blockchain. Of course, since GDPR has yet to be implemented, it’s hard to know what the precise regulatory expectations will be.“I suspect that GDPR will also have to adapt to the blockchain in a way,” says Winston Maxwell, a privacy lawyer at Hogan Lovells in Paris. “GDPR is robust, but it’s also flexible. It doesn’t close the door on blockchain. It means people have to slow down and ask, who is responsible for what, what safeguards go around which data, and are we getting consent?” (Updates the second paragraph with a fuller quote from Michèle Finck.)

2018-03-22T14:07:40.113Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-22/robot-regulators-what-could-possibly-go-wrong
The love affair British politicians have enjoyed with fintech since the financial crisis has cooled. While four years ago, George Osborne could be spotted withdrawing some Bitcoin at an ATM or cheering on startups in Canary Wharf, his successor Philip Hammond popped up a conference this week to talk regulation.Cryptocurrencies will be kept on a leash by a special task force, common industry standards will be set for banks and startups, and "robo-regulation" will help fintech firms police themselves. The message is: let fintech firms innovate -- but in a regulated way.Fair enough, in theory. It seems unworkable and undesirable to regulate fintech in exactly the same way as banks, so why not let coders have a go? Machines are already helping regulators comb through regulatory filings to analyze reporting behaviors and tonality of language.For companies, it's a tempting prospect, but they will need to tread carefully.The problem is what to do with the human in an automated system. Studies have shown that humans react differently -- even lazily -- when removed from the chain of responsibility. There's a danger in letting automation relieve the human burden at both ends, whether it's the regulator who might have less incentive to make spot checks, or the company whose compliance department is only stirred into action when the algorithm detects a problem.The human element is also important in watching for errors that can turn into negative feedback loops if allowed to spread. The financial industry has had its share of flash crashes, fat-finger trading errors and computer bugs; it's hard to imagine robot regulation not having its own hiccups and mistakes.We've already seen false positives in the world of regulation, like the small-business owner bumped off a bank's account list after flunking a compliance check-list.It's easy to see the motivation bankers and politicians have for giving the robots more oversight: cost. Bain estimates that compliance accounts for as much as 20 percent of the cost of running a bank.The U.K. FCA regulator oversees about 15 firms for every one of its staffSource: FCA Annual ReportBut cost-cutting shouldn't deprive regulators of resources. The FCA, for example, regulates the conduct of more than 56,000 businesses, and is the prudential regulator for more than 18,000 of them. It has a staff of about 3,635 -- one employee for every 15 firms. They are paid a median salary of 65,000 pounds, less than what you would expect to see at a big investment bank. We should take care not to stretch that ratio if fintech firms hope to one day guard the savings of widows and orphans.There are good reasons to take robo-regulation seriously. Lawyers are expensive, and innovation isn't cheap. But regulators should remember to keep people in the right places, even if they can't be everywhere.

2018-03-22T09:56:34.609Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-22/cryptocurrency-exchange-binance-is-said-to-face-warning-in-japan
A regulatory rebuke for one of the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges is giving Bitcoin investors the jitters.Japan’s Financial Services Agency issued a warning to Binance for operating cryptocurrency exchange services with Japanese residents through the internet without a license in the country, according to a statement on the agency’s website. Bitcoin fell as much as 4.5 percent after the Nikkei first reported the warning on Thursday, and was down 0.2 percent at 9:31 a.m. in Hong Kong on Friday.Zhao ChangpengBinance, founded by Zhao Changpeng, was warned because it had several staff in Japan and had been expanding without official permission, according to a person familiar with the FSA’s plans, who asked not to be named because the information is private.The news adds to signs that governments around the world are stepping up scrutiny of cryptocurrencies amid worries that they’re facilitating everything from money laundering to tax evasion and fraud. Japan, one of the most active markets for digital assets globally, introduced a licensing system for virtual currency exchanges last year in an effort to improve oversight.Binance told Bloomberg in January that it was working to acquire a license in Japan, but the warning could complicate those efforts. Zhao said on Thursday that the exchange is “engaged in constructive dialogue” with the FSA. While Binance was founded in Hong Kong last year, Zhao has said that his company does not currently have a legal headquarters anywhere in the world.Read more: What the World’s Governments Are Saying About CryptocurrenciesThe FSA has been clamping down on cryptocurrency venues in the wake of a $500 million theft from Japanese exchange Coincheck Inc. in January. Last month, the regulator issued an administrative penalty against Macau-based Blockchain Laboratory Ltd. for giving seminars and providing consultation services in Japan without a license. Earlier this month, it suspended several local venues for poor security measures.Binance has consistently ranked as the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume since late last year, according to Coinmarketcap.com. It held the top volume ranking for the past 24 hours, trading about $1.6 billion, the website shows.

2018-03-19T23:00:01.002Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-19/is-this-legal-making-sense-of-the-world-s-cryptocurrency-rules
Getting your head around cryptocurrencies was hard enough before governments got involved. But now that policy makers around the world are drawing up fresh regulations on everything from exchanges to initial coin offerings, keeping track of what’s legal has become just as daunting as figuring out which newfangled token might turn into the next Bitcoin.The rules can vary wildly by country, given a lack of global coordination among authorities. And while that may change after finance chiefs discuss digital assets at the Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires this week, for the time being there’s a wide range of opinions on how best to regulate the space. Below is a rundown of what major countries are doing now.Most of the world’s cryptocurrency trading takes place in this tech-savvy region, with Japan playing a dominant role after it introduced a licensing system for digital-asset exchanges last year. In Hong Kong, regulators have adopted a more hands-off approach while at the same time warning crypto platforms to refrain from trading anything that qualifies as a security without permission. Singapore’s deputy prime minister has called cryptocurrencies an “experiment,” adding that he doesn’t see a strong case to ban trading. Taiwan authorities are taking a wait-and-see approach, while the Philippines plans to roll out rules for ICOs by year-end.China, once a global hub for cryptocurrency trading, now leads the world in cracking down. It has outlawed digital-asset exchanges and ICOs, blocked online access to overseas trading platforms and cut off power to Bitcoin miners. South Korea, which became a hotbed of cryptocurrency activity last year, is also tightening oversight as it works on a comprehensive set of regulations, though it has allowed exchanges to keep operating for now. In India, where crypto-mania has been relatively subdued, the government has said it doesn’t consider digital currencies to be legal tender and will take measures to curb their use.Most cryptocurrency trading in the U.S. takes place in a legal gray area, a point highlighted by the nation’s two top market watchdogs in testimony to Congress in February. Still, the Securities and Exchange Commission has been scrutinizing everything from ICOs to cryptocurrency hedge funds and trading venues. How exactly it plans to crack down on the industry remains to be seen.In Canada, regulators have said that ICOs may be treated as securities and that products linked to cryptocurrencies should be considered high-risk. At the same time, the country’s stock exchanges have become popular destinations for crypto-related stocks and exchange-traded funds. Brazil’s market regulator, meanwhile, has barred funds from investing in cryptocurrencies because they aren’t classified as financial assets.The European Commission is still reviewing the bloc’s regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies. The European Securities and Markets Authority, which coordinates standards across member states, has proposed restrictions on derivatives tied to virtual currencies for retail investors, and is also assessing how the EU’s new MiFID II rules apply to digital assets. One regulation that’s already in the pipeline: platforms that exchange virtual currencies for conventional money will soon have to verify the identity of their customers.At the national level, Germany has cracked down on trading venues that lack permission to offer brokerage services and French authorities have said that online platforms for crypto-derivatives should face tough reporting and business conduct standards. In the U.K., a parliamentary committee is looking at how to police digital currencies.Russia’s finance ministry unveiled draft legislation in January that would ban cryptocurrency payments while allowing ICOs and the exchange of virtual currencies into the traditional sort. To make the rules permanent, the ministry may have to overcome opposition from the nation’s central bank.It’s mostly a gray area for cryptocurrency regulation in major African economies. South Africa’s markets regulator doesn’t oversee virtual currencies or digital-asset exchanges, though the central bank has said it will investigate an “appropriate policy framework and regulatory regime.” In Zimbabwe, where digital currencies are traded on exchanges and used for remittance payments, the monetary authority has warned about the risk of “money laundering, terrorism financing, tax evasion and fraud.”It’s a similar story in Kenya, one of Africa’s most tech-savvy nations. There, Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have grown in popularity even as officials have warned against trading them. In Nigeria, cryptocurrency markets aren’t regulated, but the central bank, which likens Bitcoin trading to gambling, has said that will probably change.— With assistance by Sam Mamudi, Adrian Leung, Andrea Tan, Silla Brush, Benjamin Robertson, Paul Wallace, Benjamin Bain, Yuji Nakamura, Stepan Kravchenko, Kristine Owram, Godfrey Marawanyika, Julia Leite, Colleen Goko, Santanu Chakraborty, Emily Cadman, Cindy Wang, Anuchit Nguyen, and Aline Oyamada

2018-03-23T14:30:29.470Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-23/too-convenient-to-fail
Are banks tech companies?How many banks does the United States need? In the very olden days you might come to an answer by saying, well, each town needs a bank, preferably two so there's competition, maybe more in big towns. Multiply that by the number of towns and you get your answer. Perhaps one bank could have branches in multiple towns, but that would frankly be weird: Putting your money in a bank is a profound act of trust, and you want to be able to look the bank owner in the eye and make sure you trust him before giving him your money. Times changed. Licensing and deposit-insurance rules made it easier to trust banks without knowing them personally. National banking allowed banks to have branches in multiple states, and national banks became acquisitive. The trust calculus flipped: If you are going to trust an impersonal bank whose managers you have never met, it might as well be a big impersonal bank whose managers you can see on TV, rather than a little impersonal bank whose managers are invisible.Still there remain some reasons to use local banks. You might have an aesthetic preference for buying local. Your local bank might have local expertise and be more competitive at giving you a small-business loan or whatever. And your local bank might just have branches in your town, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America and Wells Fargo & Co., still, might not.But that calculus is also changing:Last year, about 45% of new checking accounts were opened at the three national banks, even though those lenders had only 24% of U.S. branches, according to research by consulting firm Novantas. Regional and community banks, by contrast, had 76% of branches but got only 48% of new accounts, the firm said. ...Before online and mobile banking became popular following the financial crisis, these consumers generally opened a new account at the bank with the nearest branch, no matter the size of the institution, said Andrew Frisbie, executive vice president at Novantas.But now that many banking transactions are done online or through smartphones, these customers are picking national banks because of their well-known brands and the perception that their technology is better, Mr. Frisbie said.Why wouldn't their technology be better? If you serve a lot of accounts all over the country, you can amortize the cost of developing good apps over a lot of accounts, and driving people to the app instead of to branches saves you a lot of money. If you serve fewer accounts out of one branch in one small town, where do you even find a local app developer?There is nothing especially novel about this. Bookstores used to be local businesses. Bookstore chains killed a lot of local bookstores, because there were economies of scale in running a big chain, but there were still niches and preferences that allowed local stores to survive. Amazon.com Inc. was the real problem. When the market becomes national, or international, it is a lot harder for local-scale businesses to compete.Obviously lots of people have lots of complaints about Amazon, and about other big companies in big industries that used to be local and are now national. These complaints are often antitrust complaints, or consumer-welfare complaints more broadly; often they are producer-welfare complaints (what about the book publishers?), or competitor-welfare complaints (aren't local booksellers entitled to earn a living?), or general nostalgia (aren't local bookstores just nice?).But of course banking raises another level of issues, because we had a financial crisis 10 years ago, and people remain worried about banks that are systemically risky or "too big to fail." Concentrating all the deposits into a few national banks, banks that also happen to provide the plumbing of the financial system and do a lot of trading and investment-banking business, seems to a lot of people to be an unnecessary risk. Often you hear explanations of this concentration that suggest that it is unnatural, that the big banks have artificially low costs because of too-big-to-fail subsidies, or that the regulatory burden on big banks actually forces them to become bigger.But the explanation could be as simple as, you know, how many competing banking apps do people need? How many online-bookseller apps or car-hailing apps compete at national or international scale? The answer is rarely "one," but it is rarely hundreds, either. If banking is an app, then of course the banks will be few and enormous. And regulation will need to reckon with that directly: Optimizing capital requirements or whatever won't prevent banks from becoming giant and systemically risky, if the basic market demands of their business push them in that direction.Are banks moral arbiters?Meanwhile:Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by its business customers, making it the first Wall Street bank to take a stance in the divisive nationwide gun control debate.The new policy, announced Thursday, prohibits the sale of firearms to customers who have not passed a background check or who are younger than 21. It also bars the sale of bump stocks and high-capacity magazines. It would apply to clients who offer credit cards backed by Citigroup or borrow money, use banking services or raise capital through the company."The company declined to name clients or describe the extent of affected partnerships but said that 'real revenue is at risk' if relationships fall through and customers protest." There is a fairly standard story about banking in which banks are Bad -- reckless, selfish, amoral -- and therefore need to be overseen by government regulators who are Good -- prudent, public-spirited, moral. But humans and institutions are complicated and face different constraints and incentives, and it is at least possible that sometimes the banks will be more unselfish or more prudent than the government, that market forces will create better rules than democratic ones.Read the 10-K!Public companies in the U.S. have to make public filings -- annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, announcements of material events on Form 8-K, descriptions of trading by insiders and big shareholders, etc. -- on the Securities and Exchange Commission's Edgar website. Should you read them? For amateur investors that is perhaps a difficult question: There is an obvious conventional wisdom that you should read them so you can be informed about the companies you invest in, but there is also an argument that reading SEC filings gives casual retail investors merely the illusion of competence. After all these filings are publicly available and you are competing with professionals whose only job it is to analyze stocks; surely those professionals are also reading the filings and then also doing a lot of other research that you just can't do. On the other hand, if you yourself are a professional stock investor, sure, go ahead and read the filings. The company is telling you what it thinks you need to know about its operations and finances, so you should probably take a look. It's not going to give you a huge advantage over anyone else -- everyone else can read the filings too -- but it seems like the sort of bare minimum work you'd do to understand a company before investing in it. Right?Here is kind of a wild paper from Alan Crane, Kevin Crotty and Tarik Umar of Rice University called "Do Hedge Funds Profit From Public Information?" that looks into whether hedge funds download filings from Edgar, and whether it helps. On the first question, some do, some don't, and "while the median fund-month download amount is only 4 filings, the mean is 672." On the second question, it helps:Hedge funds that access any filing have higher abnormal returns in the next month compared to funds that do not access filings. The result is statistically significant and economically large, representing a difference in abnormal returns of about 1.5% per year. More intensive information acquisition is also associated with higher subsequent abnormal returns, with the above-median users generating 2%-per-year higher returns than non-users.It is hard to know what to make of that. One obvious interpretation is that markets do not efficiently incorporate the most basic public information into stock prices, and if you go and read companies' public filings you can outperform the market. A flip side of that interpretation is that some hedge funds do not do that most basic part of their job, and that if you don't bother to read companies' public filings then of course you are going to underperform your peers.But other interpretations are available. For instance the paper does not seem to be limited to fundamental long-short equity hedge funds, where actual reading of filings would be most relevant, and you could imagine that "number of Edgar downloads" might mostly index what style of fund you are rather than how seriously you take your job. A quantitative macro fund -- or an international stock fund for that matter -- would not use Edgar much; a fundamental U.S. equity fund would use Edgar a medium amount; a quantitative equity fund might scrape hundreds of Edgar documents a day. ("Even within funds, performance is better in periods when those funds access more," write the researchers, which "suggests that the relation we observe is more than just an indicator of fund type.")There are confounding factors. The sample of "hedge funds" seems both over- and under-inclusive. There are lots of ways to get Edgar filings without accessing Edgar -- from the Bloomberg terminal, for instance, or from the companies' own websites -- so it's not clear that actual Edgar download activity is a good indicator of use of public filings. And it's not clear that there's a causal relationship between the outperformance and the downloading. Still it is an odd result. You would expect this sort of basic public information to be disseminated so widely and efficiently that you couldn't beat the market just by reading it. But perhaps you can.But here's another wild thing about this paper: You can go find out which hedge funds accessed which documents on Edgar! I mean, that seems wild to me, but the authors' literature summary mentions several other papers that use the same technique. In each case researchers use public records to figure out which hedge funds own which IP addresses, and then match the IP addresses to Edgar traffic logs that the SEC makes available. (Here they are.) The Edgar logs are posted quarterly with a six-month lag, and you can't necessarily match up every hedge fund with an IP address, so you can't find out, say, what companies Dan Loeb or Bill Ackman are looking at today. But you can at least find out what companies some hedge funds were looking at a year ago, and what sort of research they did. It might tell you interesting things about their investing processes. I would definitely read a second-order paper examining usage of the Edgar logs: Can hedge funds profit from looking at data about what other hedge funds are looking at?Humblebrags.Elsewhere in investment advantages based on public disclosure: Consistent with theory, results show that when the disclosure medium is a conference call, investors are less willing to invest when the CEO is modest about positive firm performance compared to when the CEO brags. In contrast, when the disclosure medium is Twitter, investors are less willing to invest when the CEO brags about positive firm performance compared to when the CEO is modest. Further analysis reveals that perceived CEO credibility mediates the influence of a CEO’s communication style and disclosure medium on investor judgments. Additionally, we find that regardless of the disclosure medium, investors are less willing to invest in a firm when the CEO humblebrags about positive firm performance relative to when he brags or is modest.That's from "How Disclosure Medium Affects Investor Reactions to CEO Bragging, Modesty, and Humblebragging," by Stephanie Grant, Frank Hodge and Roshan Sinha of the University of Washington. The findings are based on a lab study -- they wrote fake disclosures for a fake company, showed them to a bunch of accounting students, and asked the participants to rate their willingness to invest -- and there are appendixes with the texts used in the study. You are unlikely to read any prose today that is more enjoyable than these hypothetical earnings-call humblebrags:An overall increase in consumer demand for wireless products caused an increase in revenue this quarter. Looks like we didn't even need our innovative and groundbreaking marketing campaign.External consultants helped develop new manufacturing processes to reduce production costs, causing us to beat earnings expectations. We didn't even have to unleash our creative and talented internal teams.Finally, strong macroeconomic conditions caused an increase in cash flows from operations. Apparently we will have to wait for a down market to see the true effect of our innovative new collection practices.Yeah I wouldn't invest in a company whose CEO talked like that either.The crypto.So a bit of a mea culpa. Yesterday I wrote about Union Square Ventures' investment in CryptoKitties, and expressed a certain amused skepticism. And Union Square partner (and excellent tech/venture-capital blogger) Fred Wilson tweeted at me to acknowledge my skepticism but suggest that I read this post by his colleague Nick Grossman. That post confronts the skepticism that many people have about CryptoKitties, but explains that it is actually a profound technological development:Because each kitty is a token on Ethereum, that means that anyone else (aside from the original developers of Cryptokitties) can view that asset and integrate it into other systems, without anyone’s permission.For example, on Kittyhats — developed independently from CryptoKitties — you can buy a hat for your kitty.Look: They are right, and I was wrong, and I am sorry. I thought that CryptoKitties was just a game that allows you to buy cartoon cats on the blockchain, and I thought it was silly. But I completely missed the point. CryptoKitties is actually a game that allows you to buy cartoon cats on the blockchain, and put little hats on them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I have tried, but I am only human and there is absolutely no way to write about this that is not sarcastic. But Grossman's post is smart and worth reading! The interesting, ambitious vision of token/blockchain technology involves thinking of new ways to build decentralized tools on the internet, and CryptoKitties and their hats might actually give some useful pointers in that direction. Grossman:The (original) internet brought us a world where any site could link to any other site, and they could all be accessed from anywhere in the world.  This was the first interoperability revolution.  The next one will be with data and digital assets.  For a long time, data has been the property of platforms — with cryptonetworks and cryptoassets, data can live outside of any one platform, under the control of users.  This has the potential to open up a lot of innovation.It does. You could put little socks on the kitties. The future is amazing.Elsewhere: "The World's Biggest Crypto Exchange Is Moving to Malta." "For the first time, NYC buyers pay for condos in bitcoin." "Cryptocurrency Backed by Habanero Peppers Is a Thing in Mexico." "Co-founder of Linkedin hopes to solve spam, with blockchain." Combination record store and hedge fund.Here is an extremely pleasing story from the Village Green of Maplewood & South Orange with the extremely pleasing headline "Outsider Records & Hedge Fund Opens in Maplewood’s Elmwood Arts District." It is what the headline says:Buying vintage records is pretty trendy right now. Many of these shops share space with barber or coffee shops. What you probably haven’t seen is a place to buy your vinyl and watch a hedge fund in action. But that’s what you’ll find at Outsider Records & Hedge Fund, which opened at the beginning of March.It may sound like an odd pairing, but to owner Michael Wynne, it makes a lot of sense: “Hot sauce and cauliflower, chocolate and peanut butter, lots of unusual tastes go together.”"The records and the hedge fund are completely separate businesses," "the hedge fund may take some time to come to fruition," and "the record store income allows him funds for operational expenses while his recently established hedge fund develops." It is not unusual for someone to make a lot of money running a hedge fund and then pour that money into an expensive passion like record collecting; it is somewhat less common for someone to make money by collecting records and pour that money into an expensive passion for hedge-fund management.Things happen.As Trade War Fears Slam Stocks, Winners Stand Out. China to Intervene in Stocks After Tariffs Trigger Rout. Toys ‘R’ Us, iHeartMedia Haunt Buyout Firms Sitting on Trillion-Dollar Cash Pile. How Sequoia’s $2 billion Dropbox win became as big as it is. Credit Suisse boosts management pay under revamped plan. Pershing Square Cashes Out of Nike Stake. Money Markets Are Messed Up, With Real Consequences. DOJ and AT&T Clash Over Impact on Consumers of a Time Warner Deal. Steve Wynn Sheds Entire Stake in Casino Giant He Co-Founded. Whole Foods Is Losing Executives Under New Owner Amazon. Comedian Byron Allen Buys the Weather Channel for $300 Million. My Cow Game Extracted Your Facebook Data.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-15T23:23:56.346Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/want-to-mine-bitcoin-in-new-york-you-ll-have-to-pay-a-premium
Bitcoin mining is about to become a costlier proposition in upstate New York.The New York Public Service Commission on Thursday cleared the New York Municipal Power Agency to raise electricity bills for cryptominers seeking to take advantage of the state’s low-cost hydroelectric power. The agency is made up of 36 municipal power authorities in the state. In some cases, the miners -- which require huge amounts of electricity for data processing -- accounted for a third of a municipal utility’s demand, the commission said.“If we hadn’t acted, existing residential and commercial customers in upstate communities served by a municipal power authority would see sharp increases in their utility bills,” Commission Chair John Rhodes said in a statement.

2018-03-15T18:25:36.803Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/peter-thiel-is-bullish-on-bitcoin-the-heartland-and-trump
Billionaire investor Peter Thiel praised Bitcoin and U.S. President Donald Trump while criticizing big, liberal-leaning cities and Democrats during a talk at the Economic Club of New York.The Facebook Inc. board member on Thursday said Bitcoin will become more important, squeezing out Ethereum and other newer cryptocurrencies. His venture firm, Founders Fund, has been quietly buying Bitcoin since 2012 -- as has Thiel who is worth more than $3 billion, according to Bloomberg estimates.Thiel compared Bitcoin to a digital version of gold and argued that the quest to amass money "is the bubble that never pops."The housing market is another matter. Thiel, whose hedge fund Clarium Capital soared during the housing collapse and later imploded for failing to quickly spot the recovery, singled out high-priced housing as the main growth barrier for coastal startups.He joins a growing group of venture investors searching the country’s heartland for startups to bankroll and says the next innovations will likely come from less insular, less expensive areas. Despite a steady decline in recent years, Northern California and New York startups still attracted more than half the $70 billion total venture capitalists invested in the U.S., according to the 2017 MoneyTree report.Along with geography, sector is important, Thiel said. Artificial intelligence companies don’t appeal to him, but "charismatic" technologies do like Bitcoin, biotech and anything his longtime friend and fellow PayPal co-founder Elon Musk develops.Thiel recently moved to Los Angeles from Silicon Valley to escape what he called a group-think mentality that he says is intolerant of conservatives. Thiel, who helped elect Trump and advised him during the transition, became a lightning rod for liberal ire with some founders and venture investors in the Valley killing deals because they disagreed with Thiel’s political views.Although Thiel, 50, has said little publicly about Trump and his policies during the past year, he opened up at Thursday’s event.Thiel praised Trump for his ability to re-frame issues like trade with China and promote economic growth through tax cuts. If Trump decides to run for re-election in 2020, he’ll win because the Democrats have failed to move past the "hate factory" of anti-Trump rhetoric to focus on issues, the investor added.Thiel’s newest project is creating a conservative news website from L.A., possibly hiring celebrities from Fox News. Thursday’s event moderator, Fox Business Network Global Markets Editor Maria Bartiromo, asked him about those plans in an interview set to air Friday on Fox. Thiel said the future of media is "internet-centric," and he’s still figuring out the business model, according to advance excerpts of the interview.

2018-03-15T14:29:31.385Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/bitcoin-bull-tom-lee-sees-more-pain-ahead-before-price-recovery
Bitcoin’s painful start of the year isn’t over, according to research firm Fundstrat Global Advisors LLC.Bitcoin is down more than 60 percent from its high of almost $20,000 in December and will only show signs of bottoming closer to $5,873, according to a Fundstrat report Thursday. Negative headlines on tightening regulation globally and decisions from Facebook Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google to ban ads on digital coin sales are weighing on the cryptocurrency market.“When sentiment is this weak, the market is increasingly ’fire, ready, aim’ -- meaning, any headline today is likely to trigger selling," Fundstrat analysts including Tom Lee and Robert Sluymer wrote.Bitcoin had almost doubled from its low just below $6,000 in February but failed to cross $12,000 and is now sinking past key level after key level. Over the past eight days, Bitcoin has broken below support at $9,325, and Wednesday broke the $8,370 level. Its next support is at $7,535 followed by the February lows at $5,873, according to the report.There are some bullish signs emerging. Bitcoin currently trades at the break-even cost of mining, currently at $8,038, based on a model by Fundstrat’s data scientists Sam Doctor and Ken Xuan. The digital currency bottomed in 2015 when it was at the same multiple relative to mining costs as it is today, and peaked in 2013 at 21 times its mining costs.Additionally, March is seasonally the worst month for Bitcoin, rising only once in the last seven years. April is one of the strongest, rising five times in that period.For more on cryptocurrencies, check out the Decrypted  podcast:

2018-03-21T08:53:30.688Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-21/crypto-craze-sees-singapore-firm-tapping-sports-stars-for-tokens
Global Crypto Offering Exchange is attempting to capitalize on the intersection of avid fanbases -- sports and cryptocurrencies -- to grab investor dollars in the frenzied initial coin offering space.The company has teamed up with ex-Liverpool soccer star Michael Owen to issue a cryptocurrency in his name -- the OWN coin. Owen joins boxing veteran Manny Pacquiao as investors and issuers of celebrity tokens with the exchange.“You have to be brave and sometimes put faith in things,” Owen said in an interview in Hong Kong, when asked about investing in still-new cryptocurrencies, which some have derided as worthless.The tokens will be usable to buy merchandise or make donations to charities chosen by the athletes, as well as for personalized interactions with them. The launch date for the OWN will come next quarter, and it will also be connected to soccer training centers and tutorial programs Owen is developing, according to the Singapore-based Global Crypto Offering Exchange.Click here to see how Bitcoin compares with some of history’s biggest bubbles

2018-03-14T23:00:05.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/bitcoin-pop-culture-moment-fades-as-fad-gives-way-to-regulators
Suddenly, Bitcoin seems a bit boring.It might be hard to believe. But after the 1,400 percent rally of 2017, with wild swings along the way, the great crypto craze has cooled, at least for now. For the past month, Bitcoin’s price has stalled between $8,000 and $11,300 -- a minuscule range by its standards. And internet searches for “Bitcoin” have plunged, suggesting public interest has, too.“The general public is now realizing that this is not a risk-free, get-rich-quick, investment opportunity and general interest has since diminished,” said Lucas Nuzzi, a senior analyst at Digital Asset Research.A value of 100 is the peak popularity for the termSource: Google TrendsThe 2018 lull shows just how quickly investment fads can come and go. Gone for now are the days when Bitcoin dominated talk at holiday tables. Stories lately look a lot like the ones in the back sections of financial papers -- dry accounts of regulatory scrutiny, market structure and legal wrangling.Online searches for “bitcoin” fell 82 percent from December highs, according to Google Trends. Tweets that mention the coin peaked Dec. 7, at 155,600, and are now down to about 63,000, BitInfoCharts says. And the number of bitcoin transactions is off 60 percent from its record on Dec. 13, according to Blockchain.info.December brought “Bitcoin Craze Propels Coinbase App to No. 1 in Apple’s Store.” Now there’s “Bitcoin’s Wildest Days Are Over as Regulators Circle.” Indeed, Bitcoin’s been in the news for all the wrong reasons lately.Its price slumped Wednesday after Google said it would prohibit cryptocurrency ads, following Facebook’s move from January. Major banks including JPMorgan and Bank of America banned crypto purchases on their credit cards, the Securities and Exchange Commission has stepped up cryptocurrency oversight and Congress is holding hearings on how to treat the digital coins. Earlier this month, Allianz Global Investors argued the the coin’s “intrinsic value must be zero.”“The story with Bitcoin is pretty straightforward,” said Roger Kay, president of research firm Endpoint Technologies Associates Inc. “It went up fast, and then came down even faster. Consumers who flocked to it late got burned. They are in the shadows now, licking their wounds. And others contemplating how to get rich quick are acutely aware that what goes up can come down, and maybe Bitcoin isn’t the way to go about it.”Of course, Bitcoin’s obituary has been written countless times in its nine-year existence. In fact, 111 such stories appeared last year when it was on a tear, according to 99bitcoins.com. Almost forty have been written so far in 2018, on track to top that level.Still, just Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said hedge fund billionaire Alan Howard made sizable personal investments in cryptocurrencies last year. And even Allianz doesn’t think Bitcoin is done for, not as long as the number of speculators and crypto true believers remains high. Coinbase says it still has more than 20 million customers, though it’s not clear how many have been active recently.And this isn’t Bitcoin’s first slump. It’s had at least three declines of 70 percent or more since 2010 only to come back with a vengeance and reach higher highs.For now, though, boring might be the new normal as the decline in public interest could leave Bitcoin in what for it could be considered a tight range. Remember, after a rally boosted its price 84-fold in 2013, it tumbled back down in the next week and held there until lifting off again in 2017.Yes, the slump lasted more than three years.

2018-03-21T12:36:32.782Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-21/trading-places-inspired-tech-darling-inks-winklevoss-crypto-deal
A U.K. fintech firm named after one of Eddie Murphy’s early movies has hooked up with crypto royalty.Beeks Financial Cloud Group Plc -- whose name is a reference to the 1983 film ‘Trading Places’ starring Murphy and Dan Aykroyd -- signed a pact with Gemini Exchange, the crypto trading platform run by the billionaire Winklevoss twins. The agreement will allow Beeks clients to trade Bitcoin and Ethereum through Gemini, according to a statement Wednesday.Glasgow, Scotland-based Beeks, which facilitates automated trading in forex and futures, sought a secure trading venue for cryptocurrencies following an increase in client demand, Chief Executive Officer Gordon McArthur said by phone.“Gemini is one of the few cryptocurrency exchanges that are regulated and doing things properly,” McArthur said. “This allows our institutional clients to connect to the exchange directly and get a proper equity exchange-like experience.”Beeks debuted on the London Stock Exchange in November with a market capitalization of about 23 million pounds ($32.4 million). Its value increased to about 30.5 million pounds on Wednesday as the stock gained as much as 6 percent, making it the best-performing technology stock of the six that listed in the U.K. capital last year.McArthur says the Gemini deal is a stepping stone in the company’s growth. “Lots and lots of our clients have been asking us to provide a low latency source of crypto liquidity and this partnership allows us to do it,” he said.The company’s reference to Clarence Beeks, an inside-trading antagonist in ‘Trading Places’, “is not something I like to admit,” McArthur said, adding that many of the company’s other projects also have names referring to the movie.One of Beeks Financial’s partner portals is called Winthorpe -- a homage to the character Louis Winthorpe III who was played by Aykroyd.

2018-03-20T21:00:21.650Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/cryptokitties-raises-12-million-from-andreessen-union-square
CryptoKitties, the blockchain-based virtual game that was a breakout success on the Ethereum network, is being spun off as a separate venture that has already raised $12 million from a star-studded roster of investors.While Andreessen Horowitz and Union Square Ventures led the funding round, other investors included Coinbase Inc. founder Fred Ehrsam, AngelList Chief Executive Naval Ravikant and Zynga founder Mark Pincus, the venture-studio Axiom Zen said in a statement.CryptoKittiesCryptoKitties, which is being spun off from Axiom Zen, aims to make the distributed ledger technology, best known for underpinning digital currency Bitcoin, more accessible and relevant for everyday consumers.The game entered the spotlight in December, when CryptoKitties slowed the entire Ethereum network. In the game, which debuted on Nov. 28, players can breed cats and sell their offspring. In early December, CryptoKitties accounted for 11 percent of all transactions on the network, according to web data tracker ETH Gas Station. The software application has fallen out of the top-10 most used Ethereum apps since.

2018-03-16T15:06:08.556Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/bitcoin-heading-for-a-tumble
Bitcoin, the world’s largest cryptocurrency, may be set to fall further if trading patterns are any guide. At about $8,200, it is already almost 60 percent below the high it touched toward the end of 2017 and its 50-day moving average is dropping toward the 200-day moving average, taking the chart toward a “death cross,” according to Bitstamp pricing. Based on the token’s price history, it may tumble to as low as $2,800, according to Paul Day, a technical analyst and head of futures and options at Market Securities Dubai Ltd.

2018-03-16T17:59:42.569Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/bitcoin-mining-banned-for-first-time-in-upstate-new-york-town
A small lakeside town in upstate New York is fed up with Bitcoin miners using up so much of its low-cost electricity.Plattsburgh, whose residents are a quick jaunt from the Canadian border, has put an 18-month moratorium on cryptocurrency mining to preserve natural resources, the health of its residents, and the “character and direction” of the city.“It is the purpose of this Local Law to facilitate the adoption of land use and zoning and/or municipal lighting department regulations to protect and enhance the City’s natural, historic, cultural and electrical resources,” Plattsburgh said after holding a public hearing on the matter Thursday.For a year and a half, the almost 20,000-resident city will not consider new applications for commercial cryptocurrency mining. And if you break the rules, you’ll owe Plattsburgh up to $1,000 for each day you violate the moratorium.Mining, a process by which individuals or groups get paid in new Bitcoins to run complex mathematical equations on high-powered computers in order to confirm the validity of transactions, has drawn scrutiny from environmentalists who say it’s sucking up too much electricity. Some have estimated that Bitcoin miners will use more power than electric cars in the near term.Plattsburgh gets cheap power from the St. Lawrence River, driving down electricity costs for residents, but it exceeded its allotted amount of hydropower in December and January, according to a local newspaper. Some complained that their bills surged as much as $300.The city council said it needs time to consider zoning laws and lighting regulations “before commercial cryptocurrency mining operations results in irreversible change to the character and direction of the city.”Want to Mine Bitcoin in New York? You’ll Have to Pay a Premium

2018-03-15T11:30:15.618Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-03-15/bitcoin-isn-t-an-investment-until-buyers-sweat-the-fees
If you want to know where cryptocurrencies are in their development, keep an eye on fees. When a new “investment” comes along, investors are often too busy counting their anticipated bounty to care about cost. Shrewd purveyors predictably seize the opportunity to charge excessive fees. But reality inevitably falls short of investors’ expectations, and the focus eventually turns to how much they’re paying to invest.    That’s a short history of stock investing. Investors had little access to stock market data a century ago. They didn’t have the luxury of knowing, for example, that the S&P 500 Index would generate a real return of 7.1 percent annually from 1926 to 2017, including dividends. Or that the index’s real return would fall short of that long-term average 52 percent of the time over rolling 10-year periods.The market's 10-year real returns have fallen short of its long-term average more than half the timeSources: S&P, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, author's calculationsSeeing those numbers, it’s clear that cost is crucial. It’s not surprising, therefore, that investors have demanded lower fees over time. In a 2002 study of trading costs, Columbia professor Charles Jones estimated that the annualized trading costs of NYSE stocks had fallen more than 80 percent since 1900. And in just the last two decades, the asset-weighted average expense ratio for equity mutual funds has fallen 42 percent to 0.63 percent a year in 2016 from 1.08 percent in 1994, according to the Investment Company Institute.Equity mutual funds have responded to investors' increasingly dim view of high feesSource: Investment Company InstituteA more recent example is hedge funds. Investors had little data to guide their expectations during hedge funds’ heyday in the 1990s. In the absence of evidence, managers made wild claims about what they could achieve, and credulous investors famously paid them 2-and-20 for the dream -- a 2 percent annual management fee and 20 percent of profits.Three decades later, it turns out that hedge fund returns were no better than the market’s. The HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index has returned 9.9 percent annually from 1990 through February, the longest period for which returns are available, compared with 9.8 percent for the S&P 500.Granted, hedge funds were also half as volatile as the broad market, and that’s worth something. But how much? Consider that a 9.9 percent annual net return after 2-and-20 implies a gross return of 14.4 percent, or fees of 4.5 percent a year. That’s 90 times more expensive than an S&P 500 index fund.Hedge funds have matched the market's return with less volatilitySources: Bloomberg, S&PNote: Indexed to 100.No wonder investors are pushing back. Credit Suisse Group AG recently conducted a global survey of hedge funds and found that the use of 2-and-20 has fallen 65 percent. It’s likely just the beginning. Providers of exchange-traded funds are rolling out hedge fund strategies for a fraction of the cost. The asset-weighted average expense ratio of long-short ETFs is 0.75 percent a year, according to Morningstar data. That’s a good indication of where hedge fund fees are likely to go. The evidence is also stacking up for private equity and venture capital, where 2-and-20 is still the norm. And here, too, investors are likely to find the numbers surprising. The median net internal rate of return of the funds in the Cambridge Associates US Private Equity Index averaged 13.2 percent annually for vintage years 1986 to 2015. (The vintage year is the year that the fund first began making investments.)There’s a catch, however. Unlike an S&P 500 index fund, where the market return is available to all investors, there’s a huge range of outcomes in private equity. The top quartile of funds in the private equity index produced an average net IRR of 21.4 percent, while the bottom quartile eked out 6.6 percent.There's a wide range of outcomes among private equity fundsSource: Cambridge AssociatesThe numbers for venture capital are even more eye-opening. The median net internal rate of return of the funds in the Cambridge Associates US Venture Capital Index averaged 11.3 percent annually for vintage years 1981 to 2015. And the range of outcomes was even broader. The top quartile of funds averaged 23.2 percent, compared with just 3.5 percent for the bottom quartile.   Returns from venture capital have been modest, particularly for investors in the bottom quartile of funds Source: Cambridge AssociatesGiven the additional risks of investing in private equity and venture relative to traditional assets, and the uncertainty around outcomes, I suspect that investors will ultimately balk at paying 2-and-20 for the privilege.Which brings us back to cryptocurrencies, about which the available evidence is short and useless. Bitcoin’s price history dates to July 2010, and it has returned 392 percent annually through February. There’s no worthwhile information in that number, of course.Bitcoin's short price history offers investors no practical guidance about the futureSource: BloombergBut the lack of data allows fantasies to flourish and crypto exchanges to charge whatever they want. Take a look, for example, at the fee disclosure of Coinbase Inc., a popular cryptocurrency exchange with more investors than discount broker Charles Schwab Corp. Coinbase’s fee schedule resembles NYSE trading costs from a century ago. And there are so many carve-outs and disclaimers that it’s impossible to know exactly what the fees are likely to be.That hasn’t stopped Coinbase’s roughly 13 million users. But someday those users will ask questions and demand a fair shake. That’s when you’ll know that cryptocurrencies are all grown up. To contact the author of this story:      Nir Kaissar in    New York at nkaissar1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Daniel Niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-20T11:04:26.295Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-20/telegram-loses-bid-to-stop-russia-from-getting-encryption-keys
Telegram, the encrypted messaging app that’s prized by those seeking privacy, lost a bid before Russia’s Supreme Court to block security services from getting access to users’ data, giving President Vladimir Putin a victory in his effort to keep tabs on electronic communications.Supreme Court Judge Alla Nazarova on Tuesday rejected Telegram’s appeal against the Federal Security Service, the successor to the KGB spy agency which last year asked the company to share its encryption keys. Telegram declined to comply and was hit with a fine of $14,000. Communications regulator Roskomnadzor said Telegram now has 15 days to provide the encryption keys.Telegram, which is in the middle of an initial coin offering of as much as $2.55 billion, plans to appeal the ruling in a process that may last into the summer, according to the company’s lawyer, Ramil Akhmetgaliev. Any decision to block the service would require a separate court ruling, the lawyer said.“Threats to block Telegram unless it gives up private data of its users won’t bear fruit. Telegram will stand for freedom and privacy,” Pavel Durov, the company’s founder, said on his Twitter page.Putin signed laws in 2016 on fighting terrorism, which included a requirement for messaging services to provide the authorities with means to decrypt user correspondence. Telegram challenged an auxiliary order by the Federal Security Service, claiming that the procedure doesn’t involve a court order and breaches constitutional rights for privacy, according to documents.The security agency, known as the FSB, argued in court that obtaining the encryption keys doesn’t violate users’ privacy because the keys by themselves aren’t considered information of restricted access. Collecting data on particular suspects using the encryption would still require a court order, the agency said.“The FSB’s argument that encryption keys can’t be considered private information defended by the Constitution is cunning,” Akhmetgaliev, Telegram’s lawyer, told reporters after the hearing. “It’s like saying, ‘I’ve got a password from your email, but I don’t control your email, I just have the possibility to control.’”The court decision is intended to make one of the last holdouts among communications companies bow to Putin’s efforts to track electronic messaging. Durov in June registered the service with the state communications watchdog after it was threatened with a ban over allegations that terrorists used it to plot a suicide-bomb attack.Telegram has more than 9.5 million users in Russia, according to researcher Mediascope. It raised $850 million from investors in February in a so-called initial coin offering and is trying to raise another $1.7 billion, according to company documents seen by Bloomberg News. Telegram plans to use the proceeds to build a blockchain network with built-in cryptocurrency Gram that could enable faster transactions than bitcoin.

2018-03-13T17:02:53.675Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-13/fed-hikes-seen-hastening-bitcoin-convergence-with-gold-chart
Bitcoin’s soaring premium to gold is being eroded as the digital currency faces regulatory scrutiny and lower demand. The convergence is likely to accelerate with help from the Federal Reserve, according to Mike McGlone, a strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, who says rate hikes have marked bitcoin tops and gold bottoms. “Getting past imminent Fed tightening, increasing inflation and the weak dollar are all gold-positive, while the opposite, mean reversion, is bound to continue overwhelming bitcoin,” he said, adding that the price of one bitcoin and an ounce of gold were the same only 11 months ago.— With assistance by Nancy Moran

2018-03-19T01:37:46.561Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2018-03-19/on-g-20-agenda-a-shared-desire-to-calm-down-crypto-quicktake
It took one of the wildest investment manias in history to jolt them into action, but governments around the world are finally starting to regulate cryptocurrencies. Their approaches have run the gamut, from a massive crackdown in China to an exchange-licensing regime in Japan and a largely hands-off system in Switzerland. Some countries, most notably the U.S., have yet to formulate a comprehensive strategy. But on the whole, oversight is increasing, as shown by the desire of finance ministers of the Group of 20 nations to discuss a common approach to cryptocurrencies when they meet in Buenos Aires on Monday and Tuesday. How the rules evolve will help determine whether last year’s cryptocurrency boom was a flash in the pan, or the start of something bigger.The list of worries is long: illegal initial coin offerings, money laundering, tax evasion, cyberthefts, exchange outages, excessive speculation and more. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney recently warned of cryptocurrency “anarchy” without a coordinated regulatory approach. These risks may have been easy for authorities to overlook when Bitcoin and its peers sat on the far fringes of finance, but cryptocurrencies are moving ever closer to the mainstream. The stakes are much higher now that everyone from mom-and-pop investors to Wall Street banks are piling in. Adding to the challenge is the question of how to define cryptocurrencies, with little agreement on whether they’re currencies, commodities or something entirely new.America hasn’t yet developed a broad set of rules for cryptocurrency trading, a point highlighted by the nation’s two top market watchdogs in testimony to Congress in February. That may change if lawmakers give federal agencies more authority, but for now regulators are taking a piecemeal approach. The Securities and Exchange Commission has focused on policing ICOs and has taken a tough stance when it comes to approving crypto-related mutual and exchange-traded funds. The agency on March 7 said for the first time that platforms serving as venues listing digital assets that are securities will need to register as national exchanges or qualify for an exemption. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission allowed two of the world’s biggest exchanges to list Bitcoin futures in December, arguing that the move would help it gain insight into markets where the cryptocurrency is traded. That same month, the CFTC is said to have subpoenaed one of the largest spot trading venues.China, once the world’s most active market for Bitcoin trading, has taken the toughest stance among major countries by banning both ICOs and cryptocurrency exchanges, and recently targeting platforms that permit domestic trades on overseas venues. While Japan chose a more accommodating path, introducing a law that resulted in 16 licensed trading venues. But in early March it also cracked down, penalizing six exchanges and telling another to revise its management structure among other changes. South Korea, another crypto hot spot, has tightened some trading rules as authorities hammer out comprehensive legislation. While the European Union’s markets authority has warned about the dangers of investing in cryptocurrencies, regulations across the continent have varied. French authorities are clamping down, while Switzerland’s economy minister wants to create a “crypto nation.”Banks -- a key conduit for the flow of funds from traditional currencies into digital assets -- have mostly kept a distance. Firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. have barred customers from using credit cards to buy cryptocurrencies. Some lenders have also avoided dealing with crypto exchanges because of know-your-customer and anti-money laundering rules. Bitfinex, the trading venue subpoenaed by the CFTC, saw its relationship with Wells Fargo & Co. end in March 2017, though it has since opened an account with ING Groep NV. One area where traditional financiers have been more willing to get involved: the regulated futures market. But even those contracts have doubters, and volumes so far have been light.They’re down, but certainly not out. Fears of of increased regulation helped spur a nearly 70 percent drop in Bitcoin from its peak near $20,000 in December before a rally to around $10,000 in February was followed by further declines. The fragmented nature of regulators’ response may be one reason for the resilience: In the absence of concerted global action, the anonymous and borderless nature of many digital coins makes them tough to control.Responses have varied. In the U.S., organizations including the Bitcoin Foundation, Coin Center and Chamber of Digital Commerce have met with lawmakers to argue against subjecting cryptocurrencies to more rules. Some exchanges have actively tried to avoid oversight, while others have flocked to places like Japan in hopes that an official stamp of approval from regulators will boost their credibility among investors and other counterparties.When the G-20 finance ministers meet, one likely topic will be addressing what Carney has called a “major underlap” in regulation. The International Monetary Fund in January called for global regulatory norms. Korean officials have pledged to come out with comprehensive rules soon and the European Commission is reviewing the bloc’s regulatory framework.— With assistance by Benjamin Bain

2018-03-14T18:17:40.622Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/cboe-signals-big-plans-for-trading-cryptocurrency-derivatives
Cboe Global Markets Inc., an exchange that’s quickly become one of the biggest believers in cryptocurrencies, wants to expand beyond Bitcoin futures.Introduced in December, Cboe’s Bitcoin contracts trade thousands of times a day, representing tens of millions of dollars of the digital currency. It wants to introduce derivatives contracts on other cryptocurrencies.“The vision is to have a crypto complex,” Cboe President Chris Concannon said Wednesday at a Futures Industry Association conference in Boca Raton, Florida. Digital currencies are “here to stay,” he added.Futures have helped introduce the crypto craze to a new class of investor, people who want to make leveraged bets and short sales on Bitcoin while doing business on a regulated exchange. The introduction of derivatives can signal an asset class is reaching the more professional corners of Wall Street.Concannon and Cboe Chief Executive Officer Ed Tilly, who spoke at the same conference, wouldn’t specify the cryptocurrencies they’re targeting. The biggest besides Bitcoin are Ether, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin, according to Coinmarketcap.com. The two Cboe executives said their decision would depend on demand from customers and conversations with regulators. Cboe would also like to list exchange-traded notes and funds tied to cryptocurrencies, Tilly said.Read about Cboe partner’s plan to expand in cryptocurrenciesOther exchanges are also trying to get their bearings in cryptocurrencies.Cboe’s openness contrasts with the attitude of CME Group Inc., a larger rival that also introduced Bitcoin futures in December. CME CEO Terry Duffy said last month that the futures exchange would take a cautious stance toward expanding to other digital currencies.Speaking at the futures industry conference Wednesday, CME Chief Operating Officer Julie Holzrichter said that while the company took a measured approach with Bitcoin futures, “as an exchange, sometimes you have to take a risk." She said CME would like Bitcoin to be regulated and that “we made sure to launch with very high margins and tight limits.”Nasdaq Inc. is interested in offering Bitcoin derivatives, but CEO Adena Friedman said Wednesday that her exchange needs to provide something that’s different enough from what’s already on the market. She also expressed some trepidation over the unregulated nature of underlying cryptocurrency markets.“The exchange environment for the actual physical instrument is unregulated. That creates a different level of risk,” Friedman said in a panel discussion at the conference on Wednesday.Read more about Nasdaq’s plans for BitcoinIn December, Australia’s main stock exchange became one of the finance industry’s biggest backers of the blockchain technology that makes Bitcoin and Ether possible. ASX Ltd. plans to use a system designed by Digital Asset Holdings LLC, the startup run by former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker Blythe Masters, to process post-trade clearing and settlement.Friedman said that ASX and Masters have done well to show how that technology can make global markets more efficient. “ASX has done an excellent job of consulting with the community,” she said. “They were a pioneer.”

2018-03-15T15:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/technology-meant-to-make-bitcoin-money-again-is-going-live-today
A version of the technology that’s meant to make cryptocurrency payments faster and cheaper went live Thursday.The software, called Lightning Network, can now be used for Bitcoin payments after more than a year in which thousands of developers tested it. Lightning Labs, one of the firms developing the technology, released this initial version, which is compatible with networks being developed by other groups, such as Blockstream and Acinq.Bitcoin has become digital gold -- or a viable investment alternative -- to many, but it has been harder for it to fulfill its original purpose of becoming digital money, as transaction fees have skyrocketed to as high as $50, while confirmation times took as long as a week at their peak. Enthusiasts say the Lightning Network will solve these problems with fees at a fraction of a cent and instantaneous transactions.Lightning Labs also announced it raised $2.5 million of seed financing from investors including Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey, head of Square Capital Jacqueline Reses and Tesla Inc. investor Bill Lee.As the Lightning Network rolls out, another technology meant to speed up transactions, Segregated Witness, gains traction. The number of transactions using it doubled to more than 30 percent of the total in the past month. Bitcoin transaction fees have plummeted in part thanks to this, but the total number of transactions has also declined. Lightning Network is also meant to help lower fees on the main Bitcoin network.Fees fall as scaling mechanisms are implemented and as number of transactions slideSource: Bitcoinfees.infoThe Lightning Network allows Bitcoin users to open payment channels between each other. The parties can then conduct transactions without having to post them to the Bitcoin blockchain, avoiding delays and costs that result from recording those transactions each time. Once the channel is closed, only the resulting balances are recorded on the blockchain, not the full transaction history of the channel, and only then are Bitcoin fees paid. There is no required time or transaction limit required to close a payment channel, so they can potentially remain open for months or years.Elizabeth Stark, Lightning Labs founder and chief executive officer, says merchants and especially online businesses will be the most likely users as it facilitates a high volume of payments and its near-zero fees allow for micropayments. Cryptocurrency exchanges could also use the software to accelerate deposit and withdrawal of funds, she said.The network is currently able to process transactions in the low thousands per second, according to Stark, which is still far from Visa Inc.’s maximum of 56,000, but an improvement on Bitcoin’s five transactions per second. More than 4,000 payment channels have been opened since the technology was released in January 2017, and even though it was in testing, some merchants already started using it. Block & Jerry’s, an online ice-cream store playing on American ice-cream brand Ben & Jerry’s, is one.“Bitcoin enthusiasts have gotten excited about this, merchants are excited about this,” Stark said. “It feels like we’re right on the edge of mass cryptocurrency adoption.”For more on cryptocurrencies, check out the Decrypted  podcast:

2018-03-19T20:36:34.750Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-19/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jeyoxjmo
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTech takes center-stage, with U.S. stocks in the sector tanking amid production reports on Apple and trouble brewing for Facebook. Meanwhile, companies from Walmart to Amazon are warning U.S. President Donald Trump against any sweeping trade action against China. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.Stocks declined globally on Monday as a technology selloff sent the Nasdaq indexes to the steepest losses in six weeks, though the Nasdaq-100’s 50-day moving average offered some support. Government bonds erased losses, while the pound jumped on a Brexit breakthrough. Tech companies were roiled by reports of a Facebook data breach and Apple efforts to develop its own screens. There’s also growing angst in the credit markets. Apple is designing and producing its own device displays for the first time, using a secret manufacturing facility near its California headquarters to make small numbers of the screens for testing purposes, according to people familiar with the situation. The technology giant is making a significant investment in the development of next-generation MicroLED screens, say the people, who requested anonymity to discuss internal planning. Asian suppliers for Apple fell on the news. The development also puts Apple’s $3.4 billion a year relationship with Samsung Electronics at risk. The rival phone-maker was Apple’s fourth biggest supplier in 2017.The Trump administration is pressing countries to ally with the U.S. in pushing back against Chinese trade policies in exchange for relief from American tariffs on steel and aluminum, according to a European official. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has been leading negotiations under which countries may be excluded from the tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum. American trading partners and U.S. companies are pressing for exemptions and exclusions from the tariffs, which take effect on Friday. In talks with the U.S., Lighthizer has laid out five conditions that countries must address before being excluded. They are: Limiting steel and aluminum exports to the U.S. to 2017 levels; actively addressing China’s various trade-distorting policies; being more assertive and cooperative with the U.S. at the G-20 Global Steel Forum; cooperating with the U.S. in launching cases against Chinese practices at the WTO; and enhancing security cooperation with the U.S.U.S. companies from Walmart Inc. to Amazon.com Inc. are warning President Donald Trump that any sweeping trade action against China could raise consumer prices, increase costs for businesses and hurt stock prices. Broad-based tariffs on Chinese goods would “trigger a chain reaction of negative consequences for the U.S. economy,” a group of more than 40 business groups led by the Information Technology Industry Council said Sunday in a letter to the president. The coalition includes groups representing retailers and makers of everything from toys to wine, while the council represents companies including Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft.Asia's traders may be even more focused on China than usual Tuesday. President Xi Jinping takes center stage Tuesday at the closing session of China’s National People’s Congress, providing him another chance to ram home his vision for the nation now that he has further consolidated his grip on the reins of power. And then Premier Li Keqiang will hold his annual press conference. Europe's day will feature the German ZEW survey, U.K. inflation data, EC consumer confidence and figures from South Africa on the current-account balance and inflation. In the U.S., the FOMC will start its two-day meeting. Meanwhile, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman meets President Donald Trump at the White House.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.— With assistance by Garfield Clinton Reynolds, Sarah Ponczek, Mark Gurman, Andrew Mayeda, and Nikos Chrysoloras

2018-03-15T11:47:01.229Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/hedge-fund-billionaire-alan-howard-s-bitcoin-bet-is-cautionary-tale
Bitcoin continues to redefine the word volatility. The cryptocurrency is down more than 50 percent from its December peak; but that still leaves it up more than 600 percent from its value a year ago.Bitcoin's rollercoaster journey shows no signs of stabilizingSource: BloombergOn Thursday, it dipped below $8,000, marking a decline of more than a third this month alone. Its fellow digital currencies including Ripple and Ethereum have inflicted similar losses on holders -- or hodlers, as crypto-fanatics call the ever-bullish aficionados who grin and bear their losses in expectation of a renewed rally.The renewed slide comes after my Bloomberg News colleagues Alastair Marsh and Nishant Kumar reported on Wednesday that billionaire hedge fund manager Alan Howard made "sizable personal investments" in cryptocurrencies and associated technology last year. Some of his fellow partners at Brevan Howard Asset Management have also put their own money into the new-fangled structures, they reported.There's a warning here to others: billionaires can afford to dabble where mere fiscal mortals should fear to tread.The ultra-rich can almost certainly afford to lose every cent they punt on digital currencies without affecting their lifestyles. A survey of Bitcoin owners published by Lendedu in December, however, found that 22 percent of those using credit cards to finance their purchases hadn't repaid their balances.Using borrowed money to speculate on cryptocurrencies is the equivalent of taking your entire personal net worth to the casino, where the odds are always in favor of the house. No wonder some major financial institutions such as Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. have outlawed crypto purchases using their plastic.Secondly, digital currencies remain speculative gambles rather than investments, at least for now. Hedge-fund managers (well, the successful ones) will be well-aware of the academic literature in behavioral economics of tendencies such as confirmation bias, fear of missing out and loss aversion -- something that devotees of Bitcoin and its ilk seem to be blissfully ignorant of.Thirdly, the regulators are circling. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating hedge funds set up specifically to participate in digital-token sales. Markus Ferber, the lead European Union lawmaker on the MiFID II suite of rules, said earlier this week that virtual currencies should be classified as financial instruments and fall under those regulations to protect investors.One avenue open to the overseers of finance would be to restrict cryptocurrencies to sophisticated investors. That would anger the many libertarians who extol the virtues of the likes of Bitcoin as offering a store of value outside of the purview of central banks; but it would instantly shrink the pool of subscribers available to the purveyors of initial coin offerings, to the detriment of their subsequent valuations."Let me tell you about the very rich," F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote in a short story published in the 1920s. "They are different from you and me." That statement is as correct today as it was almost a century ago; and it should serve as a warning to anyone planning to belatedly jump on the cryptocurrency bandwagon.

2018-03-14T13:16:56.431Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/square-s-merchants-are-willing-to-accept-bitcoin-survey-says
More than half of the retailers that use Square Inc.’s technology at the checkout stand would take Bitcoin as a form of payment, according to a new study.In a survey of around 100 U.S. merchants, Nomura Instinet found that 60 percent would accept Bitcoin in lieu of dollars. Respondents spanned various industries and had at least $100,000 of annual revenue. The 31-40 age group had the highest representation, with about 40 percent of participants falling under that category.“This result is surprising, especially amid Bitcoin’s elevated volatility,” Nomura Instinet analyst Dan Dolev wrote in a report Wednesday.High fees, slow transaction times and extreme volatility have made many skeptical that Bitcoin can succeed as a legitimate form of payment. While the network has become more efficient in recent months, it’s still tough to find retailers that are willing to accept digital currencies. Only 28 restaurants in the New York City area take Bitcoin, according to Yelp.In November, Square started letting some customers buy Bitcoin on its Cash App, which lets users send money to friends. The company said in January that it was rolling out the option to almost all users.“Bitcoin, for us, is not stopping at buying and selling,” Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey said on the firm’s fourth-quarter earnings call in February. “We do believe that this is a transformational technology for our industry and we want to learn as quickly as possible.”

2018-03-19T09:02:00.490Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-19/blockchain-enters-opaque-territory-with-first-structured-note
Blockchain, the technology promising to usher in simplicity and transparency to finance, is entering one of the industry’s most obscure corners.London-based Marex Solutions created what it says is the first structured product to be registered, cleared and settled using the distributed ledger technology underpinning Bitcoin. The two-month pound-denominated notes pay a coupon of up to 13 percent per year based on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index, according to a term sheet. Marex declined to say how much was sold to retail investors in the private placement on Friday.Frequently lambasted by regulators for confusing terms, high fees and pushy sales practices by distributors, the structured product industry would seem ripe for the kind of disruption promised by blockchain. Scores of institutions -- including Wall Street’s biggest banks -- are racing to develop distributed ledger technology to simplify the way securities are traded, settled and recorded.“It’s allowed us to tackle a product that was previously the exclusive domain of a handful of investment banks and global custodians,” said Nilesh Jethwa, chief executive of Marex Solutions, a division of Marex Spectron Group Ltd., in an interview. “For the first time, a bunch of guys who are niche specialists in their area can work together to create something which isn’t just as good as the investment banks are producing, but actually superior.”The structured product industry is one that could use a shake-up. Global year-to-date issuance led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. fell 2 percent from last year to $25.4 billion, according to Bloomberg data. With regulatory changes such as MiFID II and increased investor focus on fees, the products seem to be on the losing side of a war with exchange-traded funds, where issuance is growing.Structured product sales have been falling steadily on regulatory changesSource: Bloomberg dataThrough March 16 of each yearThe Ethereum blockchain technology can help make structured notes “cheaper, faster and safer,” according to Jethwa. It promises to cut out intermediaries that have traditionally participated in the settlement process, potentially reducing fees charged to investors. The time to complete trades can be slashed from two days “to minutes, if not seconds,” while decreasing the possibility of human error and settlement failure, according to a statement.Banks, exchanges and fintech firms are experimenting with the technology in other markets. Lenders including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed a successful six-month test using blockchain in the $2.8 trillion equity-swaps market, while the Canadian Securities Exchange plans to create North America’s first clearing house based on the technology. Central banks will eventually use blockchain to settle interbank fund transfers, according to the CEO of Ripple, a provider of the technology based in San Francisco.The Marex notes promise to return investors principal no matter the outcome, with the capital protection backed by a loan agreement between Marex Financial Ltd. and the issuer, a Luxembourg-based special purpose vehicle.If the iShares Core FTSE 100 exchange-traded fund climbs no more than 2.5 percent investors don’t reap any of those gains. The product was issued within the Financial Conduct Authority’s so-called regulatory sandbox, which allows businesses to test new fintech initiatives.It may be years before other issuers, including Wall Street banks, adopt the innovation for their own products. “No bank has been able to do this so far, even though blockchain has been around for years,” said Jethwa, the Marex CEO.

2018-03-14T11:00:29.717Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-14/bitcoin-blockchain-demonstrates-the-value-of-anarchy
In Silicon Valley, startups are urged to have a clear mission statement. If a business lacks an explicit set of values to guide decisions, anarchy prevails. Such is the case with the blockchains at the center of the cryptocurrency boom.The Bitcoin blockchain, which records and secures all transactions in the digital currency, is anarchic by design. This doesn’t mean that it’s going to overthrow the government (disappointing, I know). It simply means that the network functions without a designated authority. Instead, Bitcoin employs economic incentives to enable thousands of competing interests to achieve a common goal.The idea that a $160 billion cryptocurrency is controlled by a software protocol running on autopilot is discomfiting to some. There’s no one to appeal to in case of theft or fraud or major malfunction. Any software modification involves an online proposal followed by lengthy discussion among participants all around the world. When a rough consensus emerges, the proposal is implemented and users take steps to apply the update.Social consensus is a sloppy and ill-defined process, especially when it comes to a cryptocurrency that spans multiple countries, languages and jurisdictions. More often than not, it ends in deadlock. This is not entirely unintentional. Bitcoin’s pseudonymous creator once stated: “Once version 0.1 was released, the core design was set in stone for the rest of its lifetime.” Most recently, stakeholders spent years arguing over how to improve Bitcoin’s transaction throughput, spawning multiple offshoots made up of disgruntled users.Newer blockchain protocols are designed with built-in mechanisms to avoid such discord. Some examples include on-chain voting for modifications, crowdfunding software contributions and prediction markets for rule changes. If virtual money can scale to a global user base, why not its associated governance?The goal is to coordinate decisions among a decentralized set of users. The problem is that it’s a short hop away from collusion. And the whole point of a decentralized system is to prevent collusion! Bitcoin’s enduring value comes from its resistance to human arbitration. The inability to coordinate change has led some to accuse Bitcoin developers of being unresponsive to user desires, but any action would also alienate many users.For a decentralized cryptocurrency, alienating users is the greatest danger, because exit costs in cyberspace are very low. After Trump’s election, lots of people threatened to move to Canada — but approximately zero did, because packing up and moving requires a lot of work. Leaving a blockchain is much easier. Fervent believers will be the quickest to fork off if they feel that their vision has been misrepresented.The fact that Bitcoin was designed to confound human decision-making is a feature, not a flaw. The core protocol is tasked with enforcing the single rule most crucial to the cryptocurrency’s value: no counterfeit spending. By contrast, the U.S. dollar is burdened with effecting monetary policy, enforcing sanctions, fighting crime and much more. The more functions a currency has, the more things there are to argue over, and the more likely the community will be to fracture. Bitcoin’s uncompromising focus allows it to serve a broader user base.In blockchains, anarchy is the worst form of governance except for all the others. That said, it’s still possible that Bitcoin didn’t get things right the first time around. As more people get involved, coordinating decisions will become even more difficult, and Bitcoin’s inflexibility may prove too limiting.
            

                1
            
         Even Ethereum, which once executed a $55 million loss recovery on three days’ notice, is finding it difficult to repeat the procedure 18 months later. Any decentralized cryptocurrency has a limited window in which to coordinate decisions. So let the creative experiments begin.A good overview of this concept is presented in Tadge Dryja’s talk on Decentralization vs Incoordination, from the 2017 Blockchain Protocol Analysis and Security Engineering conference.To contact the author of this story:          Elaine Ou     at elaine@globalfinancialaccess.comTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Mark Whitehouse     at mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-14T07:04:00.507Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/bitcoin-is-worthless-bubble-may-pop-soon-allianz-global-says
It’s a matter of when, not if, the Bitcoin bubble will pop, according to Allianz Global Investors.The cryptocurrency is worthless, even if blockchain technology could bring significant benefits to investors, said the investment arm of Europe’s biggest insurer, which manages almost 500 billion euro.“In our view, its intrinsic value must be zero,” Stefan Hofrichter, the company’s head of global economics and strategy, wrote in a recent web post. “A bitcoin is a claim on nobody – in contrast to, for instance, sovereign bonds, equities or paper money – and it does not generate any income stream.”While one could make the same argument about gold, the yellow metal has been widely accepted as a store of value for more than two-and-a-half thousand years -- compared to less than a decade for Bitcoin, he said.In addition, the world’s largest cryptocurrency “ticks all of the boxes” of the essential criteria for any asset bubble, including overtrading, “new-era” thinking and rising leverage, he wrote. Bitcoin mania is a textbook-like bubble, “one that is probably just about to burst.”Hofrichter joins a chorus of commentators casting doubt on the underlying value of the digital currency. University of Pittsburgh researchers concluded it’s “an asset which has no value by traditional measures” and economist Nouriel Roubini called it the “biggest bubble in human history.”.Bitcoin traded 0.7 percent higher at $9,126 as of 2:45 p.m. Tokyo time. It pared an advance of about 2 percent after Google announced it would ban online advertisements promoting cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings starting in June. The digital currency has more than halved from its December peak.Still, the bursting of the Bitcoin bubble won’t have a large impact on conventional asset classes such as stocks and bonds, according to Hofrichter.“Bitcoin’s demise would have few spillover effects on the ‘real world,’ since the market for this cryptocurrency is still quite small in size,” he said. “As a result, we believe that the risks to financial stability stemming from bitcoin are negligible -- at least as of today.”

2018-03-18T21:44:04.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-18/asia-stocks-set-for-mixed-start-as-traders-eye-fed-markets-wrap
Stocks declined globally on Monday as a technology selloff sent the Nasdaq indexes to the steepest losses in six weeks. Government bonds pared losses, while the pound jumped on a Brexit breakthrough.U.S. stocks slumped as tech companies were roiled by reports of a Facebook Inc. data breach and Apple Inc. efforts to develop its own screens. That sapped Asian equities, while tech also led a retreat for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Facebook fell the most in almost four years. The tech rout added to pressure that had mounted over the weekend in Washington, as speculation grew that President Donald Trump could be preparing to fire Robert Mueller.“If the Facebook news didn’t exist there would be all sorts of jitters here just given the Trump stuff,” said Michael Purves, Weeden & Co.’s chief global strategist. “If the regulatory clouds come on Facebook, certainly Google and Amazon will face increasing questions about their ability to generate outsized earnings growth if the regulators are going to be beating them.”Meanwhile, large digital companies operating in the European Union, such as Alphabet Inc. or Twitter Inc., could face a 3 percent tax on their gross revenues based on where their users are located, according to a draft proposal by the European Commission.Sterling rallied as the U.K. and EU reached a deal on the transition agreement for the period immediately after Brexit.In a busy week, the biggest focus for global markets will be the first U.S. interest rate decision under new Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell. It comes after he hinted to investors that he’s open to lifting the policy rate four times this year, rather than the three currently reflected in dot-plot forecasts. Some Wall Street banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expect the median projection to rise to four on Wednesday, while others say there will be no change following a round of mediocre data and policy makers’ stated intentions to move gradually.“Today’s a combination of a little bit of nervousness ahead of Fed activity later in the week and then also tech getting hit,” said Craig Birk, an executive vice president of portfolio management at Personal Capital in San Francisco.Trade tensions also remain in the spotlight as U.S. Treasury official David Malpass said he misspoke hours after claiming America was pulling out of decade-old formal economic talks with Beijing. Meanwhile, investors are assessing the implications of a new head at China’s central bank.Elsewhere, the ruble weakened for a sixth day, the longest losing streak since October, as Russian President Vladimir Putin won a landslide victory in a tightly controlled election. West Texas oil edged lower and gold gained for the first time in four days.Terminal users can read more in our markets blog.Here are some key calendar events coming up this week:And these are the main moves in markets:— With assistance by Samuel Potter

2018-03-14T08:14:57.939Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/indonesian-bitcoin-investors-set-to-outnumber-stock-participants
The biggest Indonesian platform to buy and sell digital currency may soon have more members than the nation’s century-old stock exchange.Indonesia Digital Asset Exchange, formerly known as Bitcoin.co.id, will have 1.5 million members buying and selling digital currencies such as bitcoin, ethereum and ripple by the end of the year, according to Chief Executive Officer Oscar Darmawan. The platform, which began its operations in 2014, currently has 1.14 million investors, he said.In contrast, Indonesia Stock Exchange, which offers stocks, futures and options and exchange-traded funds, has only 1.18 million registered participants, according to data from the Indonesia Central Securities Depository. Companies traded on the exchange have a combined market capitalization of $520 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Digital currency traders  set to outnumber stocks investorsSource: Indonesia Central Securities Depository“We are seeing almost 3,000 new members signing up everyday,” Darmawan said. “Most people are trading in bitcoins though transactions in ethereum has increased significantly of late.”While Bank Indonesia hasn’t banned exchanges from offering cryptocurrencies, it has asked investors to refrain from owning, selling or trading the tokens. The central bank doesn’t deem digital currencies as legal tender.Indonesia Digital Asset Exchange is targeting daily volume to double from an average 100 billion rupiah ($7.3 million) a day currently, Darmawan said. The stock exchange in comparison recorded average daily transactions worth the equivalent of $550 million in 2017, according to data from the bourse.

2018-03-14T16:18:16.496Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-03-14/google-ad-ban-leaves-twitter-jack-dorsey-with-a-crypto-challenge
Google's decision to ban advertising for cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings puts Twitter Inc. CEO Jack Dorsey in an increasingly awkward spot.The founder of the social network is under pressure to follow Facebook and the search giant and crack down on misleading ads for potentially loss-making products. Yet Dorsey might have reason to resist: he is also CEO of Square Inc., which recently began to offer Bitcoin trading and which is eyeing more crypto-investments. He should choose between the two jobs.Twitter has become a magnet for the Bitcoin crowd, from cerebral developers to hucksters peddling ICOs and trade tips in full caps. The sheer volume of shameless and deceptive promotions has some users fed up. Last week, Cornell University's Emin Gun Sirer questioned when Dorsey would take action over "brazen" scams. "We are on it," Dorsey tweeted.Forecast 2018 market share in U.S. mobile adsSource: eMarketer/AdWeekIt doesn't look that way. Facebook announced its ban on "misleading or deceptive" crypto ads two months ago. For Twitter, an official company policy would be a start, however clumsy or hard-to-implement it might be. A company spokesman recently promised measures to clamp down on crypto-related "manipulation," and has suspended some accounts -- but that's a pretty basic first step.Amount of ads taken down by Google for violating advertising policiesSource: GoogleTo be sure, neither Facebook and Google's bans are watertight (they can be circumvented by misspelling words, for instance). But they're a sign the companies are at least nominally putting consumers before ad dollars, which is something. The two companies account for about two-thirds of all digital ad spending in the U.S., and, while the crypto-ban is unlikely to hurt that dominance, it shows that Silicon Valley's gate-keepers are paying attention to public concern over how they police inappropriate content.At Twitter, the big decisions will depend on Dorsey. The billionaire's Twitter hat will pressure him to pacify regulators and reduce crypto-hype, even if we don't exactly know how much is at stake in terms of revenue. But his Square hat might push him into riskier Bitcoin territory, because that's where the fintech money is. Even Dorsey's own tweets reflect a split personality, sometimes promoting Square's Bitcoin products, sometimes Twitter's commitment to civility.Square and Twitter's shares have rallied over the past year, but the dual CEO job should still be re-thoughtSource: BloombergWe know there are plenty of bigger and better reasons already for Twitter to have a full-time CEO. My Gadfly colleague Shira Ovide said back in 2016 that the platform's lack of traction with new users and its lagging ad sales pointed to the need for a dedicated leader. Both revenue and user growth has since been anemic.Content matters to politicians and regulators and is a growing risk for investors. When challenged again, Twitter's next reply should be: "We're on it -- full-time."To contact the author of this story:      Lionel Laurent in    London at llaurent2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Edward Evans at eevans3@bloomberg.net

2018-03-12T04:00:00.002Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/gold-standard-rules-sought-by-billion-euro-broker-of-bitcoins
Bitcoin should be regulated similar to gold -- which benefits from simpler compliance rules than stocks or bonds -- according to Austria’s biggest broker of the digital token.While cryptocurrency transactions in the European Union above 10,000 euros ($12,310) should be subject to anti-money laundering rules, applying more onerous financial standards could stunt the emerging market for digital cash, the founders of Bitpanda GmbH said.“Regulation provides us with more legitimacy,” Bitpanda co-Chief Executive Officer Eric Demuth, 28, said in an interview. “We’ve wanted to be regulated, but so far have been told that we cannot be.”Financial markets and regulators globally are struggling to classify and govern digital tokens created by entrepreneurs that challenge traditional, central bank-backed currencies. That’s sparked some of their creators to seek out rules to put the industry on firmer ground and lend it credibility.The prices for a single Bitcoin and an ounce of gold should move closer together as the U.S. Federal Reserve raises interest rates, according to Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Mike McGlone.“Just 11 months ago, gold and Bitcoin were the same price; now they’re on the road to convergence,” McGlone wrote in a note on Monday. Bitcoin rose 9.1 percent to $9,826 apiece at 11 a.m. in London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gold fell less than 1 percent to $1,317.11 an ounce.Austria’s finance ministry said last month it’s looking at the trading rules for gold and derivatives as inspiration for drawing up regulations on cryptocurrencies.While policy makers often see gold as a potential vehicle for criminals or tax cheaters, they don’t impose special capital requirements on the precious metal: banks can account for it as risk-free like cash or government bonds. Retail sales of gold are also exempted from VAT in the EU, and traders don’t have the capital and conduct rules that their peers do in stock and bond markets.For a look at how some banks are backing away from Bitcoin dealers, click here.Even as Austrian central bankers warn about the risks that cryptocurrencies pose in money laundering, Vienna-based Bitpanda has been expanding its links with government institutions. The company sells Bitcoin vouchers via the state-owned postal service and said it recently inked research deals with the Austrian Academy of Sciences and Technical University of Vienna.The absence of rules seems to have not stunted growth. Bitpanda’s retail brokerage will “easily” surpass 1 billion euros in turnover this year, Demuth and co-CEO Paul Klanschek, 31, said. Most of the 600 million euros transacted through its venue last year occurred in the fourth quarter.The company, which opened a London office last month, charges an average commission of about 1.5 percent.“Regulation should come from the EU level,” said Klanschek, who’s been investing in Bitcoin since 2010 and studied finance at the Vienna University of Economics. National regulators will have a hard time developing expertise to look at cryptocurrency holdings, he said.

2018-03-14T04:00:00.008Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/google-to-ban-cryptocurrency-initial-coin-offering-ads-in-june
Bitcoin slumped to the lowest level in more than a month after Google said it will ban online advertisements promoting cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings. Industry officials also said at a Congressional hearing that U.S. regulators need to provide greater clarity.The world’s biggest digital currency by market value dropped as much as 9.1 percent to $8,238, the lowest price since Feb. 12, as Alphabet Inc.’s Google announced Wednesday that the restriction would be effective in June.Facebook Inc., Google’s primary rival for ad dollars, banned ads for cryptocurrencies in January. Google’s updated policy came with the release of its annual "bad ads" report, a review of the number of malicious, deceptive and controversial ads Google scrubs from its massive search, display and video network.If the top financial watchdogs in the U.S. don’t come up with clearer guidelines for the cryptocurrency market, innovative startups may go elsewhere, according to one of the most popular digital-token exchanges.Coinbase Inc.’s chief legal officer, Mike Lempres, said in remarks for a House of Representatives hearing on cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings, that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission need to work together to more clearly define what digital coins are and who should be regulating them.

2018-03-19T14:14:51.487Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-19/warren-buffett-is-just-an-average-employee
Pay ratios.Ahahaha sure:Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Warren Buffett is scoring particularly well on a new rule requiring companies to disclose the ratio of a chief executive officer’s pay to that of the median employee.His annual compensation of $100,000 was just 1.87 times the median employee’s pay of $53,510, a figure calculated from a sample of about two-thirds of Berkshire’s total employees, according to a filing released Friday. He also gives back about $50,000 to the company “for minor items such as postage or phone calls that are personal,” meaning his take-home pay would be less than that median figure.First of all: Unlimited talk, text and data cell-phone plans will run you less than $1,000 a year; landlines are even cheaper. Warren Buffett spends ... $49,000 a year on ... postage? Like, for personal letters? It is a little mysterious.But also: Warren Buffett makes $100,000 a year? Really? I mean, yes, it is famously his salary. But Buffett increases his wealth each year in two ways: He gets paid for doing his job, and also he has billions of dollars invested in Berkshire Hathaway and most years Berkshire's stock goes up. In 2017, Berkshire Hathaway's stock was up about 22 percent, meaning that the value of Buffett's shares increased by about $15.1 billion, to $84.1 billion. So in a sense he made $15.1 billion in 2017, or $15.1001 billion if you include his salary, or $15.10005 billion if you deduct the stamps. That's a pay ratio of about 282,435 to 1. Is that the right way to count? Meh. Every year Institutional Investor's Alpha publishes its "Rich List of the World's Top-Earning Hedge Fund Managers," and every year people write stories saying that the list reveals how much hedge fund managers "are paid" or "take home," and every year I point out here that it is actually mostly a list of how much those managers' investments appreciated. It is not really how much they are "paid." But people like to interpret it that way, and you can understand why, since for practical purposes that appreciation is a big part of their economic reward for running their hedge funds. Most years Buffett would be way above anyone on the hedge-fund-manager list, if he counted. Obviously the Securities and Exchange Commission has good reason for counting only actual pay, and not stock appreciation, in its pay-ratio rules. And obviously Berkshire Hathaway has good reason for doing the calculation according to the rules. (And perhaps the median Berkshire employee also owns some stock that appreciated last year.) I don't know exactly what those rules are meant to measure, though to be fair the SEC doesn't know either. ("Congress did not expressly state the specific objectives or intended benefits of Section 953(b)," sniffed the SEC when it begrudgingly adopted the pay-ratio rules in 2015, five years after Congress mandated them.) But in any case, it's clear that Warren Buffett's annual economic reward for running Berkshire Hathaway is more than $100,000. That's barely enough to cover his postage.Elsewhere in compensation, Blackstone Group LP Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman got some:The firm will provide Mr. Schwarzman free access to a car and driver for life, privileges he previously was guaranteed for a limited number of years. If and when he retires, Mr. Schwarzman will be reimbursed for travel on behalf of Blackstone and entitled to legal representation for matters related to the firm, reflecting his possible continuing role as a public face of Blackstone.As part of a new agreement, the buyout firm will allow Mr. Schwarzman’s estate to invest in or alongside Blackstone funds without fees in the decade after his death, an unusual perk, in return for his contributions to the firm. A previous contract allowed him to make those investments without fees only during his lifetime.It's strange. At the very tippy-top levels of founder-CEO compensation, there are basically two opposite philosophies. There is a maximalist approach in which the CEO should be showered with all the goodies you can think of, which proves his importance and his firm's love for him. And there is the sort of Zen approach in which the CEO is paid a dollar, or $100,000, can't even expense his postage, and grows his dynastic wealth just by owning most of the company. The latter approach looks more appealing; there is something unavoidably lame about a board spending time negotiating with a billionaire CEO to extend his lifetime fee waiver to a lifetime-plus-10-years fee waiver. But from the perspective of an ordinary mortal the approaches kind of come to the same place. The perks, the salaries, they all look like rounding error compared to the basic economic engine of owning billions of dollars' worth of stock in a growing company. Once you're there, your choice about how else to get paid is mostly aesthetic.Spurious correlations."The Super Bowl Indicator is a superstition that says that the stock market's performance in a given year can be predicted based on the outcome of the Super Bowl of that year," says Wikipedia. "This pseudo-macroeconomic concept states that if a team from the American Football Conference (AFC) wins, then it will be a bear market (or down market), but if a team from the National Football Conference (NFC) or a team that was in the NFL before the NFL/AFL merger wins, it will be a bull market (up market)."Wikipedia is wise enough to know that the indicator is a superstition, or a joke, but the financial press tends to publish semi-serious articles about it every year. I don't think that there are any exchange-traded funds devoted to trading the Super Bowl Indicator, but it would not surprise me to learn that some retail money chases it. Humans like meaning, you know? It is nice to think that the world is full of significance, that seemingly unconnected events have deep and mysterious ties to each other. And it is nice to think that you are especially skilled at understanding the patterns, and also that you can get rich by watching football games.Here's an article about the robot equivalent:Chief executives that said “please”, “thank you” and “you’re welcome” more often enjoyed a better subsequent share price performance.However, on closer examination this turned out to be what statisticians call a “spurious correlation” — and an excellent example of one of the biggest risks of the current fad for using AI for investment purposes. “Discovering correlation but failing to search for causation occurs rather frequently in financial research,” says Evan Schnidman, the head of Prattle, which is based in St Louis, Missouri. “We always go to the primary sources, look for correlations and control as much as we can to weed out spurious correlations in an effort to discover a causal effect.”Discovering correlation but failing to search for causation occurs rather frequently in most areas of human endeavor, as you can tell by casually glancing at the internet. There is a tendency to attribute to artificial intelligence flaws that are categorically different from the flaws of human intelligence. Data mining is "'the kryptonite of our industry,' according to Gary Chropuvka, a partner at Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s Quantitative Investment Strategies," that sort of thing. But it seems to me that humans like spurious correlations at least as much as computers do; it's just that humans can't find as many of them as quickly as the computers do. Arguably the humans are better at rejecting spurious correlations that don't make intuitive sense, but be careful with that: The Super Bowl Indicator makes no sense but people love it, while the politeness indicator (which turns out to be spurious) has an obvious intuitive story. ("Prattle’s politeness signal could have indicated that companies with politer chief executives do better, which does not sound unreasonable.") And arguably the computers are at least as good as the humans at rejecting spurious correlations that don't work out-of-sample: The real controls on statistical overfitting are further statistical techniques, not human intuition. This is a case of a more general thing I think, which is that the problems of computers in investing are mostly just the problems of humans in investing, but bigger and faster. Bigger and faster versions of old problems can feel like -- can be -- qualitatively new problems; things that are cute foibles when practiced by individual humans can be systemic catastrophes when scaled up by machines. Still it often seems to me a little unfair to blame the computers. If artificial intelligence is always going around finding meaning where there is no meaning, we shouldn't feel too superior; that's definitely something that it learned from us.Blockchain structured products!Really it is hard to think of a more straightforward use case for "smart contract" technology than structured notes. A structured note is some more or less complicated derivative embedded into a note, with triggers and formulas that determine how much the borrower actually pays back. If you code all of those triggers and formulas directly into an automated smart contract for the note then, first of all, no one has to remember to keep track and calculate them during the life of the note. Also, for the people who buy the notes, the formulas are auditable: You can go read the code of the smart contract and make sure that the formulas in the code match up with the formulas you expect. (Obviously you won't, but you could.)Compared to other sorts of contracts, structured notes are easy to put on the blockchain because not much happens in them. They tend to depend on easily observable real-world events: Structured notes pay off not "if Party A completes construction on this project to the reasonable satisfaction of Party B," but more like "if Index X moves more than Y percent above its initial level," and it's pretty easy to get that data in a publicly accessible form that everyone will agree on. And they tend not to involve any real-world performance other than moving cash: If your structured note hits a trigger, you don't have to ship bananas across the world or whatever; you just have to move money into an account electronically. It's the sort of thing that computers are good at.More subtly, the money shipments are one-way: The way a structured note works is that investors buy it on Day One and never have to put up any more money again; the only movements of money after that are from the issuer to the investors. Financial derivatives generally seem like promising smart-contract opportunities, but in the average interest-rate swap, say, both sides might have to make payments at various points during the life of the trade, and so it is hard to guarantee that the contract will work seamlessly without locking up a lot of money on both sides to collateralize the contract. But with a structured note there's no need to worry about the creditworthiness of the buyers: They put up their money at the beginning and never owe anything again. Of course you have to worry about the creditworthiness of the seller, but if they're marketing structured notes presumably they have some way of convincing investors that they're good for the money.Anyway now there are blockchain structured notes:Blockchain, the technology promising to usher in simplicity and transparency to finance, is entering one of the industry’s most obscure corners.London-based Marex Solutions created what it says is the first structured product to be registered, cleared and settled using the distributed ledger technology underpinning Bitcoin. The two-month pound-denominated notes pay a coupon of up to 13 percent per year based on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index, according to a term sheet.The objection is I suppose that while this is a straightforward use case for the blockchain, it is not an especially interesting one. The upside of automating a purely financial contract with cash flows that only go one way is that you can do it without having to worry too much about interactions between your contract and the real world. The downside is that you are not doing much to change the real world. People are worried about stock buybacks.But Jesse Fried and Charles Wang of Harvard are not. From the Harvard Business Review:There is little evidence that buybacks and dividends by the S&P 500 are hurting the economy by depriving firms of capital they would otherwise use for investment and paying workers. Far from being starved of resources, S&P 500 companies are at near-peak levels of investment and have huge stockpiles of cash available for even more. Our analysis shows that the proportion of income available for investment that went to shareholders of the 500 over the past 10 years was a modest 41.5%—Less than half the amount claimed by critics. One must also recognize that some of the capital flowing to S&P 500 shareholders is then reinvested in smaller public companies and private firms, fueling growth and employment outside the S&P 500. And payouts don’t appear to meaningfully contribute to income inequality.They do some odd arithmetic here, arguing that buyback numbers are overstated because they don't take into account the fact that companies are also issuing stock as well. This is odd because that stock issuance is largely in the form of executive compensation, and in fact a central point made by buyback critics is that buybacks are a sneaky way to transfer cash from companies to executives by giving the executives stock and then buying back stock. (Dan McCrum points out this and other issues in Fried and Wang's piece at FT Alphaville.) Still the bigger points are that (1) big public companies don't seem to be especially cash-constrained and (2) some of the cash probably ends up at smaller companies where it can be more productively invested.People are worried about bond market liquidity.Nah, but here is a story about how no one wants to buy new-issue bonds anymore:Fewer orders are coming in for new bonds, relative to what’s for sale. Companies that sell notes are paying more interest compared with their other debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and once the securities start trading, prices by one measure have been falling about half the time. It’s the latest signal that the investment-grade debt market is losing steam after years of torrid gains, as rising rates and talk of tariffs weigh on the outlook for corporate profit.New-issue bonds play an important part in one of the standard stories about bond market liquidity: Because big investment banks control new-issue allocations, the story goes, and because new issues are an important source both of bonds (with little liquidity, new issues are the only time bonds come available to trade) and of profits (because new-issue bonds regularly pop when they start trading, buying them is an easy way to make money), the big banks have outsized power in the market for trading seasoned bonds. Sure you could go to some electronic platform to trade your bonds, cutting out the middleman, but the middleman is the one who controls all your new-issue allocations, and so you don't want to make him mad or you won't get any new bonds. And so all-to-all trading platforms never get as much traction as they should, because investors remain reliant on the banks, and the banks don't provide as much liquidity as they used to.But if no one wants the new bonds, and if buying new bonds isn't reliably profitable, then this story kind of goes away. That doesn't solve all of the problems of bond market liquidity -- there are still a lot of bonds, a lot are still bought and held forever, etc. -- but if your bond-market-liquidity worry focused on banks' power in the new-issue market, then the decline of the new-issue market might look like good news.Things happen.There's a Brexit deal. Point72's Haynes Resigns Following Cohen-Ordered Culture Review. From a $126 Million Bonus to Jail: The Fall of a Star Trader. Newell Brands Strikes Deal with Icahn. Last Head of Bear Stearns Taking on Wall Street Goliaths at Guggenheim. Jimmy Cayne is still good at bridge. Hedge Funds Suffer Worst Month in Two Years. A ‘Dead’ Home-Equity Tax Deduction Sees New Life Thanks to the IRS. The Next Housing Crisis: A Historic Shortage of New Homes. For Puerto Rico, the Return to Business as Usual is Slow. For Bankers Transplanted by Brexit, a Guide to Living in Frankfurt. "The court told him he was too late, and would have to remain officially deceased." What happened to nose jobs? Weird Grandpa stories. Dogs Prefer You Talk to Them in ‘Dog Talk.’If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-14T16:12:26.165Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/billionaire-alan-howard-is-said-to-make-bet-on-cryptocurrencies
Hedge fund billionaire Alan Howard made sizable personal investments in cryptocurrencies last year and plans to put more of his own money into digital assets and the blockchain technology behind them, according to people with knowledge of the matter.Other partners at the hedge fund firm he co-founded, Brevan Howard Asset Management, have independently made similar investments, the people said, asking not to be named because the information isn’t public. The investments are separate from the $9.1 billion hedge fund firm, and Brevan Howard does not trade cryptocurrencies, said the people.Spokesmen for Howard and his company declined to comment on his trades.Howard, 54, has already hired at least one person to work for him on initiatives in digital assets and plans to hire more. He could make private-equity style investments in blockchain companies and may participate in initial coin offerings, said the people.QuickTake: All About Bitcoin and BlockchainHoward’s interest in cryptocurrencies contrasts with the skepticism or hostility of many luminaries of finance, from Jamie Dimon to Warren Buffett. Bitcoin’s whipsaw ride over the past six months has thrust the risks of investing in one of the wildest and least-regulated corners of finance into the spotlight.Cryptocurrencies do have some big-name enthusiasts, including former macro fund manager Mike Novogratz and billionaire investors Mark Cuban and Peter Thiel.They grabbed mainstream attention in 2017 as Bitcoin, the best-known cryptocurrency, gained an eye-popping 1,400 percent and Bitcoin futures began trading on regulated exchanges. The explosive growth, and subsequent 42 percent decline since the start of 2018, helped prompt scrutiny from regulators around the globe.Brevan Howard’s flagship macro hedge fund recorded its worst ever annual performance last year. Like some other hedge funds betting on economic trends in developed markets, a lack of volatility amid years of central-bank stimulus made it difficult to make money.

2018-03-16T10:30:19.584Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-03-16/auditing-saudi-aramco-s-2-trillion-story-charts
Good morning! This is Fly Charts, the daily charts-only newsletter from Gadfly; sign up here. From a Toys "R" Us autopsy to PE's Asian salvation, here are four charts that tell you what you need to know in business today.Lots of things led to the demise of Toys “R” Us. But massive interest payments tied to its LBO sure didn't help.Source: BloombergNote: Fiscal year ends in January. Barring a significant repricing of oil or an unusual tolerance of political risk, a $2 trillion valuation seems like a rather massive stretch for Aramco.Source: Saudi Aramco, Exxon Mobil, Bloomberg, Bloomberg Gadfly analysisNote: Estimated breakdown of economics of Saudi Aramco's liquids and natural gas production based on Gadfly assumptions detailed in accompanying column.Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan received the second-largest raise among peers despite continued woes at the bank. Not a good look.Source: BloombergPay is total compensation and is the annual increase compared with 2016.Private equity has too much money and not enough opportunities to spend it. Asia offers a growing number of intriguing opportunities.Source: Preqin, Bain & Co.Note: Includes distressed and mezzanine funds; excludes real estate and infrastructure funds. And don't miss Nir Kaissar on Bitcoin's fee problems: "If you want to know where cryptocurrencies are in their development, keep an eye on fees. When a new 'investment' comes along, investors are often too busy counting their anticipated bounty to care about cost. Shrewd purveyors predictably seize the opportunity to charge excessive fees. But reality inevitably falls short of investors’ expectations, and the focus eventually turns to how much they’re paying to invest."To contact the author of this story:      Max Nisen in    New York at mnisen@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-16T16:33:12.834Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/fewer-americans-hold-cryptocurrencies-than-you-probably-think
More than 90 percent of American adults don’t own cryptocurrencies -- and most have a lot of concerns about the coins, a new survey from Finder found.Read the Finder study here.Overall, only about 8 percent of the U.S. population has invested in digital tokens such as Bitcoin that have dominated headlines for the past year with more than 1,000 percent gains before many of the speculative assets collapsed in price the past few months.Answers by genderSource: Finder-commissioned survey of 2,001 American adults The study found that the majority of crypto buyers are Millennials, with more than 17 percent claiming to have holdings, as compared with 8.75 percent of Gen Xers and 2.24 percent of Baby Boomers. Of those who took the plunge, most invested in Bitcoin or Ether coins.

2018-03-14T21:11:20.528Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/john-mcafee-resurfaces-with-a-bang-as-adviser-to-crypto-startup
John McAfee disappeared from the public markets after MGT Capital Inc. severed ties with the controversial antivirus software developer, but now he’s back and advising a cryptocurrency startup that’s conducting an initial coin offering.McAfee is joining CryptoSecure, a firm that says it offers “hackproof security solutions” for the digital-coin industry, as senior strategic adviser, according to a press release Wednesday. Key Capital Corp., a company focused on precious-metal mining, fintech and cancer treatments, is leading development at the startup. Shares of Key Capital, which trade over the counter, surged almost 400 percent after the announcement.“Mr. McAfee met the CryptoSecure team on a recent Blockchain cruise conference at which he was the keynote speaker,” the statement said. “During an early morning discussion on the security deficiencies of the cryptocurrency market, he was appraised of CryptoSecure’s military-grade hybrid Blockchain, Trusted Solaris OS, One Time Pad infrastructure project.”MGT, the cybersecurity company that shifted its focus to Bitcoin mining, said in January that it was parting ways with McAfee. He’d been serving as “chief cybersecurity visionary,” a position he took in August after resigning as chairman and chief executive officer amid a company reorganization.The decision was “totally amicable,” MGT Chief Executive Officer Robert Ladd said in an interview at the time, though he added that the company, which had its shares delisted from the New York Stock Exchange in October 2016, was “getting some feedback that in order to get uplisted etc. it might be easier to not have John McAfee be an officer or director of the company.” McAfee had said the decision was mutual.McAfee confirmed Wednesday in an email that he is advising CryptoSecure.Related:John McAfee Says Bitcoin Boom to Put MGT in the Black

2018-03-12T13:15:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/swaps-pioneer-s-crypto-venture-takes-two-big-steps-forward
A cryptocurrency startup backed by a credit-default swaps pioneer just took two big steps toward bringing new derivatives contracts to Ether and Bitcoin.TrueDigital, an exchange created by Sunil Hirani, has partnered with ConsenSys to create a reference rate for Ether, the companies said in a statement Monday. Such benchmarks are a crucial step because they supply the price reference traders use to calculate the value of derivatives, such as the ones TrueDigital wants to introduce for Ether, the second-biggest cryptocurrency.TrueDigital also said it’s seeking U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission permission to offer non-deliverable forwards on Bitcoin.There are already derivatives for cryptocurrencies, probably most famously the futures that Cboe Global Markets Inc. and CME Group Inc. each launched in December. But Hirani’s entrance is significant because he helped found Creditex Group, a major broker of credit-default swaps that Intercontinental Exchange Inc. bought for more than half a billion dollars a decade ago. He’s chief executive officer of TrueEX Group LLC, a swaps trading platform.The trading infrastructure for Bitcoin, Ether and other digital currencies is in its infancy and markets have been plagued with problems: hacks, funds being stolen and systems breaking down when trading becomes heavy. With that in mind, Hirani said in an interview that he’s focused on offering institutional clients access to over-the-counter digital products because that’s how mature markets like energy, commodities and currencies developed.“You can’t come out and say we’re going to do everything on day one, you have to start somewhere,” he said. “We want to be measured here.”Read more: Bitcoin Futures Pave Way for Ether Derivatives From CDS PioneerLike the Cboe and CME Bitcoin futures contracts, the TrueDigital Bitcoin NDFs will be cash-settled. Some market users are asking for a futures contract that delivers actual Bitcoin if held to expiration. Hirani wouldn’t say whether that’s the plan for TrueDigital, but added, “There seems to be a lot of demand from end-users and market-makers for a physically-delivered contract.”The Ether price reference rate will be created by a group of six to 12 market-making firms, Hirani said. In contrast, both Cboe and CME rely on exchange-derived pricing for their Bitcoin futures.ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. plans to offer its customers prime brokerage services for the TrueDigital contracts, said Brooks Dudley, vice president of risk at the firm. “NDFs on digital assets are the logical next step for institutional investors who are seeking exposure to Bitcoin and other digital currencies,” Dudley said in an emailed statement.

2018-03-16T15:02:35.843Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/ackman-einhorn-bets-are-working-out-so-far-in-march-madness
Arizona’s upset might’ve blown up a few brackets, but Bill Ackman and David Einhorn are still in contention.The billionaire hedge fund investors have standout brackets among the 42 titans of business and finance participating in Bloomberg’s Brackets for a Cause. Ackman’s choice to win this year’s NCAA Basketball Tournament, the Villanova Wildcats, cruised to the second round, while Einhorn nailed 14 of the 16 first-round games and can still notch a perfect Sweet 16.Synchrony Financial CEO Margaret Keane had the best opening day, correctly picking 15 of the games. Her one miss? Buffalo’s upset of fourth-seeded Arizona in the South Region. That likely busted her bracket since she had the Wildcats in the title game.Eight others had the PAC 12 champions playing in the Final Four, including Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert and Los Angeles Clippers owner Steve Ballmer. Perhaps they were too enamored of hot NBA prospects Deandre Ayton and Allonzo Trier.There was one notable short on Arizona: Jim Chanos had the only bracket picking the Upstate upstarts to pull off the upset.Executives, fund managers pick Wildcats to win it all. Data compiled by BloombergOthers: Michigan State (2), Kansas (2), Xavier (2), Cincinnati (1), Purdue (1), Penn (1)Villanova is the clear favorite on Wall Street, with 16 participants predicting they’ll cut down the nets on April 2. Duke and Virginia were the second most popular picks, with seven title nods each. Paul Tudor Jones and Cliff Asness like the Cavaliers, while Weight Watchers CEO Mindy Grossman and bitcoin enthusiast Michael Novogratz have the Blue Devils.Ken Moelis is the only participant whose predicted winner bowed out on the first day of action. In a likely case of heart over head, he picked his alma mater, the Pennsylvania Quakers, to take home the national title. The 16 seed fell to Kansas 76-60.Each of the participants is donating $10,000, with the total pot going to the charities of the three participants with the most accurate brackets.

2018-03-16T15:54:53.041Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/is-telegram-s-ico-overvalued-here-s-one-way-to-figure-it-out
Messaging app Telegram is finishing up the biggest digital token sale in history, hoping to raise $2.55 billion. Valuing it requires unusual computational gymnastics like pondering illegal weapons sales.That’s according to Aaron Brown, a former managing director at renowned quantitative investment firm AQR Capital Management LLC. He owns Bitcoin, so digital currencies don’t scare him, but he’s passing on the Telegram deal, in part because it’s overvalued. But his thought process -- which involves everything from internet companies to Silk Road, the website that peddled guns and drugs for Bitcoins before being shut down -- is instructive.Read More: How Telegram’s Crypto Coins May Attract $2.6 BillionTraditional valuation tools like discounted cash flows don’t work for a company that exists on donations and whose token -- like most others -- doesn’t buy any equity in the business. Brown, who writes for Bloomberg Prophets, thinks Telegram is likely worth only $1 billion today. But he sees a path to something far higher.“When I adjust for the other plausible cases and general crypto valuations, I came up with numbers like $1 billion, and declined to participate (I had reasons other than the price),” he wrote in an email. But $200 billion is “entirely possible in five years or so,” he added.Here’s Brown’s math: Looking at the growth of the internet, email and texting, he figured that, globally, around 300 million people will use digital coins to pay for goods and services on platforms like Telegram. Based on the number of active gig-economy participants and adoption of other technologies, he thought the service could grab about 4 percent of those users, or about 12 million.Brown said Gram, the Telegram token, will derive its value from the transaction balances users hold -- in other words, the amount of Gram they leave in their accounts. He next looked at the ratio of transaction balances to annual revenue at Silk Road: It was one-sixth. Applying the same ratio to Gram, and assuming these people do about $100,000 of annual value exchange per year, he came up with $200 billion.“Again, that is not what any sane person would pay today, but the best I think a rational person can plausibly hope for,” Brown said.At $200 billion, Telegram will have captured about 4 percent of total value of crypto coins, which Brown puts at $5 trillion.“This would make it roughly one-third the size of giant internet companies, which is consistent with my estimate that crypto will be one-third the value of internet businesses,” he said. “But that is the good case, and there are a lot of uncertainties about reaching it.” For example, other companies may do a better job of offering appealing services and attracting users. Telegram competes with the likes of WhatsApp and Messenger, both of which are owned by tech giant Facebook Inc.Telegram offers an encrypted-messaging service that’s long been popular with people trading cryptocurrencies and investing in ICOs. In December it said it had 180 million monthly users. It’s one of a handful of services that have a product and actual users to try to raise funds through initial coin offerings, which have raised nearly $4 billion last year, according to CoinSchedule.Brown said he may yet jump into owning Telegram tokens.“If Telegram falls out of favor but I think its business prospects are unimpaired, I could be a buyer at a lower price,” he said. “And if I get some Grams and the price soars to levels I think are unjustified, I would sell.”— With assistance by Ilya Khrennikov

2018-03-15T19:55:20.290Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/robinhood-is-said-to-raise-funds-valuing-startup-at-5-6-billion
Robinhood Markets Inc. is finalizing a fundraising effort that will see the value of the startup, which makes a stock-trading app, jump fourfold in less than a year.DST Global, a venture capital firm founded by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, will lead an investment valuing Robinhood at $5.6 billion, a person familiar with the plans said. The funding round is expected to reach $350 million, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the process hasn’t yet completed.Jack Randall, a spokesman for Robinhood, declined to comment. The funding details were reported earlier Thursday by the Wall Street Journal.Robinhood’s service is particularly popular among young people, who appreciate the ease of using the app to trade stocks without fees. In January, Robinhood said it would add Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to the app. Within a few days, more than a million people joined a waiting list to trade digital coins.

2018-03-16T09:30:01.352Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/boe-sees-u-k-domestic-risk-appetite-creeping-back-up
Banks and companies are starting to regain their appetite for risk in the U.K., the Bank of England said on Friday.Issuance of junk debt is rising, commercial real estate valuations look stretched and loan-to-income ratios on mortgages are going up as lenders compete more aggressively for market share, the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee noted in a statement on its March 12 meeting.That’s the main difference between now and the FPC’s last statement from November. The committee maintained that, apart from Brexit, domestic risks are normal and the main threats to the U.K. come from global vulnerabilities.The central bank said that banks could withstand a disorderly departure from the European Union, and that lenders didn’t need to increase their capital buffers. It kept the countercyclical capital buffer rate at 1 percent and said it will revisit that level at the next meeting in June.Progress has been made since November in mitigating risks to financial services from Brexit, though there’s still a high risk of disruption to derivatives contracts without more agreements between U.K. and EU authorities, it said.The FPC also said the popularity of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin doesn’t pose a risk to financial stability. The committee echoed Governor Mark Carney in saying that the BOE sees potential benefits in the technology underlying crypto- assets.The FPC will ensure cryptocurrencies and their exchanges are held to the same standards as the rest of the system if they become more widely used for payments or as an intended store of value, it said. For example, currently crypto-exchanges do not meet the minimum cybersecurity or transparency standards.The BOE also said that country’s biggest seven banks will be stress tested the same way this year as in 2017. The scenario envisages a shock bigger than the financial crisis a decade ago, though banks will need to pass tougher capital hurdles to pass. That’s primarily due to new accounting rules that force them to book losses on loans sooner.

2018-03-15T04:06:38.408Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-15/goldman-backed-circle-is-hiring-100-for-global-crypto-expansion
Circle Internet Financial Ltd., the consumer finance startup backed by investors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Baidu Inc., will hire 100 people as it expands a newly acquired cryptocurrency exchange.The Dublin-registered company, which began as a mobile-payments platform, is focused on improving operations, customer support and technology at Poloniex, the exchange it acquired last month. Circle will hire 25 to 35 people to grow its Asia operations, adding to a staff of about 10 in Hong Kong and mainland China, and set up teams in South Korea and Japan, co-founder Jeremy Allaire said in an interview.The expansion adds to signs that cryptocurrency entrepreneurs are undaunted by increased regulatory scrutiny and a selloff in digital assets that cut Bitcoin’s value in half since mid-December. Allaire, who has lofty visions for the future of digital tokens, said that Circle will cooperate with authorities as the company expands globally.“The long-term view is that every form of value on the planet will become a crypto token,” Allaire said in Hong Kong. “We want to offer more markets, more assets, we want to localize it, and launch it in more international markets and, critically, we need to work with the most important regulators,” he said, referring to Poloniex.Circle is backed by $140 million in venture capital from investors such as Goldman, Baidu, and investment bank China International Capital Corp., according to its website. The company has no plans to raise additional funds for now and expects to be profitable for a second year, Allaire said.Circle’s products include Circle Pay, a payment app; Circle Invest, a platform for investing in digital assets; and Circle Trade, which provides market-making services. The latter handles about $4 billion a month and plans to start supporting crypto trades in Asian currencies such as the Hong Kong and Singapore dollars, said Jack C. Liu, who joined Circle as managing director in January.

2018-03-15T14:19:11.112Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-15/is-insider-guessing-illegal
Equifax insider trading!If you work at a public company, and it suffers a massive data breach, and you find out about it before it is public, and you sell your stock, is that illegal insider trading? I do not want to give you legal advice, and there are some nuances to the question, but the basic answer is, duh, yes. That data breach is probably material to the company's stock, and you are clearly an insider, and so if you find out about the breach and trade on it then you are breaking the law.On the other hand, if you work at a public company, and it suffers a massive data breach, and you don't find out about it before it is public, and you sell your stock anyway because you just have a vague bad feeling about things, is that illegal insider trading? Again I do not want to give you legal advice, and there are some nuances to the question, but the basic answer is, no, probably not. That's just good luck: It can't be criminal insider trading if you don't know the nonpublic information when you trade. You do not usually see in-between cases. Occasionally there is a factual debate about whether the insider who traded knew about the breach, but you don't get a lot of cases where the company dropped a few hints internally about the breach and the insider made an educated guess and then traded on it. Because that is just weird.But here is just such a weird case! The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department have charged Jun Ying, a former senior technology executive at Equifax Inc., with insider trading ahead of Equifax's announcement that it had suffered a major data breach. But no one told Ying about the breach. Instead, he was asked to help out with a thing called "Project Sparta," which, according to the SEC complaint,involved setting up a website for consumers to determine whether they were affected by the breach, developing a suite of protective tools for consumers, and staffing call centers. ... Those Equifax employees who were only part of Project Sparta were not told that Equifax had been breached, but were instead told that they were working for an unnamed client that had experienced a large data breach.Ying wasn't even on Project Sparta, but his team was asked to help out with it, and he sensibly said no: He "initially resisted the requests for assistance" and "expressed concern that the deadline was unrealistic." So they told him to call his boss, the global chief information officer:During the call, the global CIO told Ying that Ying was expected to comply with the requests. The global CIO also told Ying that, at that time, Ying did not need to know why he had to comply, but that at some point, Ying would understand what was happening.At 5:27 p.m., Ying texted the direct report he had communicated with earlier, writing: “On the phone with [global CIO]. Sounds bad. We may be the one breached. . . . Starting to put 2 and 2 together.”He then allegedly "exercised all of his vested options to buy Equifax shares, and then immediately sold those Equifax shares for total proceeds of more than $950,000," avoiding $117,000 in losses that he would have faced after the breach was made public. So ... is this illegal? I mean, I don't give legal advice, but I wouldn't try it if I were you: The SEC and the Justice Department clearly think it's illegal, and it's not gonna look great to a jury. Ying did not, in the course of his work, receive the material nonpublic information that Equifax had been breached. But he did receive nonpublic information -- about Project Sparta or whatever -- that allowed him to infer that Equifax had been breached. It seems like that sort of nonpublic information, though not as material as "we have been breached," is still pretty material. A public shareholder who learned that Equifax was going around telling all of its tech people to drop everything to work on a client breach opportunity might have been able to put two and two together herself. But she didn't have that information; Ying allegedly did.Really there ought to be more cases like this. Sometimes corporate insiders are just handed material nonpublic information in the course of doing their jobs. But even when they aren't, they have lots more opportunities to intuit that material nonpublic information than the general public does, to read tea leaves or body language to get a sense of how things are going. Investors regularly set up meetings with corporate executives so they can examine those executives' body language for hints about stock performance. If you see the executive every day at work you have lots of priceless opportunities to examine her body language. "How's it going Jane," you ask, and if she twitches and runs away maybe you dump your stock. Were you trading on material nonpublic information? What was it?In a sense the weird thing is that corporate executives are ever allowed to trade in their company's stock. The normal way this is explained is that executives are not allowed to trade when they have material nonpublic information -- when they're negotiating a merger or dealing with a data breach or preparing the quarterly earnings release -- but are allowed to trade when they don't. Typically, companies have a window shortly after the earnings are released when they assume that executives are "cleansed" of inside information -- that everything material has been released publicly -- and so the executives are allowed to trade. (Or to set up 10b5-1 plans to trade automatically once the window is closed.) But this is mostly a polite fiction. The executives always know things about their company that public shareholders don't, and that the public shareholders would want to know. They know what long-term projects it is working on and how those projects are going, they know which other executives drink too much or spend too much time golfing, they know whether the chief financial officer looks a little shifty when you ask him about revenue-recognition policies. In practice everyone seems to draw a crude distinction between executives who have inside information about obvious short-term stock-moving things (this quarter's earnings, a merger, a data breach) and those who just have a better overall sense of the company's operations and prospects than the public does, but it's not obvious why that better overall sense would not be material to shareholders.The fact that there aren't more cases like Ying's probably comes down to some combination of (1) most people who are smart and plugged-in enough to intuit dramatic nonpublic information (mergers, data breaches) about their companies are also probably smart enough not to trade on it and (2) there are enough people who just receive emails that say "here's some nonpublic information about a merger, don't trade on it," and who then trade on it, to keep the SEC busy. Why bother with subtle intuitive insider traders when there is a never-ending supply of dumb obvious ones? It is telling that these charges come in connection with the Equifax breach, where several of Equifax's executive officers notoriously traded after Equifax learned of the breach but before it disclosed it. Many commentators seem to have assumed that those officers must have known of the breach and traded illegally on that information, and while I find that very implausible, the SEC and Justice Department really had no choice but to investigate thoroughly. They don't seem to have found anything illegal in the executive officers' trades, but they did happen upon this novelty insider trading case -- actually Equifax "reviewed Ying’s trading and, after concluding he violated the firm’s policies, reported its findings to government authorities" -- and so they had to bring it.Elsewhere in security breaches.This week "hardware security firm CTS Labs published a paper and website pointing to four new classes of attack that the company says are possible against AMD chips in both PCs and servers." Advanced Micro Devices Inc. stock actually went up a bit on the day CTS published, but that seems not to have been the intent:The CTS researchers shared their full findings with AMD only a day before going public, practically blindsiding the company. The typical disclosure window lasts for months, to give affected manufacturers a chance to address the issues. They also released their paper with almost no technical details that would allow anyone to reproduce the attacks they describe. And CTS includes an unusual disclaimer on its website that it may have "an economic interest in the performance of the securities of the companies" implicated in its reports, raising concerns from security analysts that they could benefit from a drop in AMD's stock price.We have talked about this phenomenon before, when we discussed a paper by Joshua Mitts and Eric Talley on "Informed Trading and Cybersecurity Breaches." A basic question to ask yourself, when considering whether this sort of thing is Bad, is: Compared to what? I think in an ideal world security researchers would disinterestedly go around discovering bugs in companies' systems, the researchers would quietly report the bugs to the companies, the companies would fix the bugs and then announce that they had been fixed, and maybe they'd pay the researchers a little something as a token of their appreciation. Compared to that world, one in which the researchers blindside the companies to make money by shorting their stock seems a little crass. But there are other possible worlds! For instance, a world in which the security researchers find bugs and exploit them to hack into millions of people's computers, steal information and cause damage would probably be worse than either of the other alternatives. "If hackers who break into public companies' computers profit by buying put options and then announcing their hacks," I wrote previously, "that seems ... less bad than any of the other ways they could profit?"Of course the incentives then shift subtly. If you find a bug and report it to the company, you'll probably only get a bounty if the bug is real, since the company is in a good position to test it. If you find a bug and use it to hack into computers and steal data, again, that will only work if the bug is real. If you find a bug, short the stock and then announce the bug, then you r profit mechanism doesn't strictly depend on the bug being real. If you can convince enough investors -- who are not necessarily technical experts -- that it is real then that is just as good as it being real. National security.One obvious weird thing about Broadcom Ltd.'s bid for Qualcomm Inc. being blocked on national-security grounds by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. is that Broadcom is only barely a foreign company. It is incorporated in Singapore, but it was formed by a 2015 merger between Avago and Broadcom, both of which were based in California. Its deal team argued that it was "a quintessential American success story; a spinoff from Hewlett-Packard that only moved its legal address to Singapore to escape a corporate tax system that Trump had repeatedly branded as broken." Its chief executive officer was born in Malaysia, but lives in California and has been a U.S. citizen for 25 years. And it was planning to move its incorporation to the U.S. -- to be fair, as part of the effort to get this deal done -- and will go ahead with that move anyway despite the deal being blocked.If it had done that move a few months before announcing the deal, instead of a few months after, CFIUS wouldn't have blocked the deal, because it wouldn't have had jurisdiction. The deal really might be a threat to U.S. national security, but CFIUS's rationale for that threat had nothing to do with exporting technology (to Singapore?). Instead, the theory was that Broadcom was "looking to take a ‘private-equity’-style direction if it acquires Qualcomm," which would involve slashing research and development and reducing U.S. innovation. But if a U.S. private equity firm did that -- or a U.S. chipmaker -- then national security concerns would be just as implicated, but CFIUS wouldn't be involved, because it wouldn't be a foreign investment in the U.S. You may agree with CFIUS's rationale, but it is an odd rationale for CFIUS, because it is not limited to foreign takeovers. Plenty of domestic takeovers, on that rationale, are just as serious a threat to national security: Who reviews those, and under what standard? Anyway here is a story about how Broadcom tried and failed to get the deal done, despite strong support from Qualcomm's shareholders and the oddity of CFIUS's rationale.Happy Bear week.To celebrate yesterday's 10-year anniversary of the fall/bailout/acquisition of Bear Stearns, the Financial Times published this retrospective of "How Jamie Dimon came to rue his Bear Stearns deal." It includes this statistic:Today there are no ex-Bear people on JPMorgan’s 11-person operating committee, or among the five corporate officers. According to one estimate, less than 4,000 of 14,000 Bear employees at the time of the deal were still at JPMorgan within a couple of years. These days, about 2,000 remain.How many would you have guessed? The zero Bear people on the operating committee is a bit of a failure, suggesting that JPMorgan really didn't get much in the way of cultural or risk-taking or knowledge benefits out of Bear. When you buy a big famous aggressive investment bank you don't want to swallow it up without a trace; you want to learn something from it, to have it change your culture as you digest it. The lack of senior Bear people suggests that that didn't take. But 2,000 out of 14,000 employees remaining after 10 years seems like pretty standard banking turnover? That's about 18 percent turnover a year. I was at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in March of 2008, and of about 15 people on my desk at the time, I count two who are still at the firm. That's pretty close to Bear's ratio. Sometimes people leave banks because of disruptive acquisitions and financial crises and failed integrations, but you can't underestimate the fact that people are constantly leaving banks.People are worried about bond market liquidity.But as far as I can tell the SEC is slightly less worried than it used to be: In 2016 it adopted new rules requiring mutual funds to publicly report "the aggregate percentage of its portfolio investments that falls into each of the four liquidity classifications" used by the SEC, "highly liquid," "moderately liquid," "less liquid" and "illiquid." The idea was that investors who were worried about the liquidity of the funds' underlying investments could go read that disclosure and assuage or confirm their worries. But before the disclosures actually started, the SEC announced yesterday that it had changed its mind: Funds will still have to report the liquidity classifications of each of their holdings to the SEC privately, but the public disclosure will go away.Instead, the SEC will replace it "with new disclosure in the fund’s annual shareholder report that provides a narrative discussion of the operation and effectiveness of the fund’s liquidity risk management program over the reporting period." I suppose you could argue that narrative disclosure of how the fund thinks about liquidity will give investors less detailed information than an explicit statistical breakdown, but the SEC argues that the change will "more effectively achieve the Commission’s policy goal of promoting investor understanding of the liquidity risks of the funds in which they have invested, while minimizing risks of investor confusion," and I cannot say that they are wrong? A list of liquidity buckets doesn't sound all that informative for the average retail investor; a narrative discussion of liquidity policies ... I mean, let's not kid ourselves, it's not that informative either, but at least the funds will be trying to tell you something useful. It is probably better than a contextless list of vaguely titled liquidity buckets, for the frankly unusual set of investors who are interested in their funds' liquidity.Bloomberg Ideas.A whole bunch of my Bloomberg colleagues --  Leonid Bershidsky, Clive Crook, Tim Culpan, Noah Feldman, Justin Fox, Ellen Huet, Nir Kaissar, Joe Nocera, Elaine Ou, Shira Ovide, Virginia Postrel, Shuli Ren, Conor Sen, Noah Smith, and Brad Stone -- will be meeting in San Francisco on March 19 and 20 for a Bloomberg Ideas event. It will be hosted by Bloomberg Beta, and will feature in-depth conversations about tech and regulation, artificial intelligence and capital markets. I will not be able to be there but it should be good; if you'd like to attend you can fill out a form here.Me yesterday.I wrote about Theranos Inc., the Blood Unicorn (Elasmotherium haimatos), which ran into a bit of trouble with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday. Here is John Carreyrou's victory lap on Theranos, which notes that "Theranos is still facing a criminal investigation led by the U.S. attorney’s office in San Francisco." And here is "Blood, Fraud and Money Led to Theranos CEO's Fall From Grace."Things happen.Kudlow Plunges Into New Role as Trump’s Economic Warrior. US Senate approves rules rollback to help smaller banks. "While the NYSE operates each day between 9:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., more than ever the action is compressed in the final minutes." Toys ‘R’ Us Will Proceed With Shutdown of U.S. Operations. IHeart Files for Bankruptcy With Last-Minute Creditor Deal. 'Panama Papers' law firm Mossack Fonseca shutting down. Brussels under fire over Barroso’s move to Goldman. This Multibillion-Dollar Corporation Is Controlled by a Penniless Yoga Superstar. Shrinking bond guarantees. Courting Crypto: Barclays Breaks Rank With Coinbase Deal. "Online searches for 'bitcoin' fell 82 percent from December highs, according to Google Trends." United Continental Holdings is misplacing dogs now. "The problem is United has long had a culture that some might describe as not customer-oriented and others might describe as anti-customer." Astronaut’s DNA no longer matches his identical twin. "MillerCoors has invented a generation that’s younger than millennials but old enough to legally imbibe."If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-03-16T10:34:12.289Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-16/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereWhite House seeks to muffle new talk of departures, border issue looms large in Brexit talks and there may be a problem with the Aramco IPO. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders tweeted that President Donald Trump is not about to oust his national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, following reports in the Washington Post and Wall Street Journal that the president wanted to remove him. In a week that saw the long-rumored sacking of Rex Tillerson, and Trump saying “there would always be change” at the White House, it is perhaps unsurprising attention has moved to McMaster, whose star within the administration has been fading. The person the president may want to fire most is Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who, according to the New York Times, has subpoenaed the Trump Organization, a move the president previously said would be crossing a red line. The gap between the U.K. and EU negotiators over the Irish border issues remains wide ahead of next week’s summit on the divorce deal, according to European diplomats. With the bloc’s remaining 27 nations agreeing on the need to make progress on the Irish border a necessary precondition for a future transition deal, there will be some tough negotiations ahead for Brexit Secretary David Davis. The latter is due to fly to Brussels on Sunday ahead of a meeting with the EU’s Michel Barnier on Monday. Meanwhile, the continued fallout from the nerve-agent attack in England has not ruffled Russian leader Vladimir Putin, who is all but assured of winning another term as president at this weekend’s election. A problem may be emerging with the proposed world-beating listing of Saudi Arabia’s state oil company – investors may not be that interested. Among the issues raised were the $2 trillion valuation, the scale of dividends Aramco would be prepared to pay, and whether, with shale oil in ascendency, oil is even a good bet these days. Political interference is also likely a risk for investors, with Saudi Arabia cutting back its dealings with German companies following a diplomatic spat between the two nations. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.1 percent, while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.4 percent lower as the yen strengthened. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.1 percent higher at 5:50 a.m. Eastern Time in a subdued trading. S&P 500 futures pointed to a small gain at the open, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.815 percent and gold was broadly unchanged. At 8:30 a.m., U.S. February housing starts data are released, with industrial production numbers due at 9:15 a.m. and consumer sentiment at 10:00 a.m. While there is something for oil-market watchers with the Baker Hughes rig count at 1:00 p.m., there may be more interest in developments in Vienna where the Iran nuclear deal is due for a review, the first since Tillerson, who supported the accord, was sacked, and the last before Trump makes his May 12 decision on whether the U.S. will continue with the deal. This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-03-14T10:37:46.385Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereTrump consolidates power, May looks to punish Russia, and China still growing strong, for now. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.With the firing of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, President Donald Trump continued his policy of surrounding himself with loyalists who share his world view, while dismissing dissenting voices. The president’s moves seem to be an extension of his declaration on the day he accepted the Republican nomination when he said “I alone can fix” the problems the U.S. faces. Whether voters approve of the president’s moves remains an open question, with results of yesterday’s Pennsylvania special election still too close to call, in a district Trump won by 20 points in 2016. U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May will set out her government’s response against Russia, following the nerve agent attack on a former spy and his daughter, in parliament today. She could expel diplomats, remove the broadcast license for the country’s English-language television arm, and prevent U.K. officials from attending this year’s soccer World Cup in Russia. Measures that go further would need international support. Away from the diplomatic mess, May is also facing further pressure on Brexit as a revised draft text of the treaty on the U.K. exit does nothing to water down proposals the prime minister has already rejected. China’s economy has had a better-than-expected start to the year, with factory output and investment in fixed assets exceeding economists’ expectations in the first two months of this year and retail sales remaining robust. The outlook may not be so rosy, with domestic headwinds from deleveraging and the country’s tech sector said to be the latest target for new U.S. tariffs. In political circles, it is not tariffs that are the biggest worry, but rather the U.S. position on Taiwan, with China prepared to take a tough stance on any American deals with the disputed territory. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.4 percent while Japan’s Topix index closed 0.5 percent lower as the region’s stocks tracked U.S. losses. In Europe, the Stoxx 600 Index was 0.3 percent higher at 5:50 a.m. Eastern Time with miners and consumer discretionary stocks leading the gains. S&P 500 futures pointed to a gain at the open, the 10-year Treasury yield was at 2.841 percent and gold was lower. At 8:30 a.m., U.S. retail sales numbers for February are released, with expectations for 0.3 percent growth in both headline and ex-auto and gas data. At the same time, PPI for February is published, with a 0.1 percent increase expected. In Europe, there are several members of ECB’s governing council speaking at a conference in Frankfurt today, with Mario Draghi’s speech earlier promising the bank would remain predictable and measured. This is what's caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-03-09T10:00:12.617Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-03-09/bitcoin-is-ridiculous-blockchain-is-dangerous-paul-ford
On the days when Bitcoin crashes, a holiday atmosphere takes over in my corners of the internet. People tweet screengrabs of Reddit fights. It’s always good fun to watch strangers grieve as their digital nonsense nickels melt into slag.It’s not that I want Bitcoin holders to suffer, really. As a technologist and entrepreneur, I’m sympathetic to and admiring of risk takers. But as a writer, I enjoy the sheer human-condition-revealing sport. I’m happy to watch other people play video games without playing myself. I’ll watch poker, but I’ve never bought a deck of cards—and when I watch football, I keep the official NFL rulebook open on my phone. For whatever reason, I tend to like the rules more than the game. Bitcoin is at some level just a set of rules, defined by software, that has become one of the world’s weirdest games. And people who invest in an unmanageable abstraction, then panic when it underperforms, are very entertaining.Everyone’s so excited and having such a good time, the sort of time you have right before they invade Paris. Watching the world of initial coin offerings over the past few years has been like watching popcorn pop. Everything rattled around in the hot air for what seemed like forever and then pop! Mastercoin! Ethereum! Bancor! Tezos! Then other kernels started popping, and now we’re eating popcorn for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Blockchain startups visit our software agency and promise to pay in dollars, then add, “There are, however, other ways to get paid.” Everyone is smart and well-funded. And, yes, some blockchain startups (but never, ever the ones that visit us) seem comical—so many graphs! Some are even deliberately so, like Useless Ethereum Token, whose logo is a raised middle finger. “There will be no expectation of gains,” says the UET website. Naturally, buyers have taken on about $300,000 worth.The people tossed around by the cryptocurrency tempest—their only sin is belief. (Well, and greed.) But here I can only smile warmly and sigh. I know what it’s like to believe.I loved the web the moment I saw it, first as words on a DEC VT320 command-line terminal and then as many-size text with pictures and bright blue links. You could read things published in Switzerland! Or at MIT! The ageographicality of it all! I was in college when the web happened. I’d already used the internet for email and to download files, but here was something that married my utterly aspirational aspiration to write with my ability to perform repetitive clerical tasks—i.e., to program. No longer would I have to photocopy my own zines; the internet would photocopy them for me.After college, at night in Brooklyn, I made my own web pages. In the morning I’d wake up, check if anyone had visited my site, then head to my job in Manhattan making web pages for companies. Money poured in—a bit into my bank account and floods of it elsewhere. Options, percentages, deal flow. I worked for a 30-person company that was bought to seed a much larger firm. The new office was on Fifth Avenue, and the new boss was from Microsoft. She brought her small dog.It was a world of wonder and comedy. The Super Bowl ads were all dot-coms; co-workers were sleeping together; and before pitch meetings, the dog pooped under the vast glass conference table. I went to a Yahoo! party that featured a fake volcano. Manhattan bookstores were displaying Dow 30,000 by 2008: Why It’s Different This Time, not to mention Dow 36,000, and Dow 40,000: Strategies for Profiting From the Greatest Bull Market in History, and Dow 100,000: Fact or Fiction.Everyone jabbered about initial public offerings, investment, and venture capital, and said “revolutionary” a lot. I knew I was supposed to have an opinion on how the web and the capital markets interacted, but I just wanted to write stuff and put it online. Or to talk about web standards—those documents, crafted by committees at the World Wide Web consortium, that defined the contract between a web browser and a web server, outlining how HTML would work. These standards didn’t define just software, but also culture; this was the raw material of human interaction. I could barely comprehend the new frontiers into which I awoke each morning.That all of this adds up to money is ridiculous, and we should probably mock it more than we doI first stumbled upon Bitcoin in 2009 and found it vaguely interesting. I understood it—or rather misunderstood it—as yet another take on micropayments, with a dash of old-school virtual currencies such as Beenz and Flooz, plus some spam-fighting ideas. My math is trash, so the Bitcoin white paper made no sense, but I still tried to mine a few coins, without success. I didn’t like wasting my Mac’s central processing unit cycles on folly, so I shrugged the whole thing off.There’s no easy way to explain Bitcoin, but let me wave my hands and try: When you go to the ATM at a store and get money to buy a six-pack, you put in your bank card. The transaction processor verifies it somewhere in the ether, takes a fee, and spits out cash. It’s all powered by software. OK, deep breath. Acquiring Bitcoin is like using an ATM, except instead of government-backed money you get proof that a computer somewhere solved an automated puzzle faster than other computers, and instead of using an ATM card you’re using an auto-generated token that only you have, and instead of connecting to a bank you’re connecting to a decentralized network of computers that collectively maintain and update copies of a massive historical database of transactions—and that also collectively validate transactions, using, well, math, and spit out new Bitcoins from time to time, to reward the puzzle solvers. Slow exhale. Almost there. And instead of buying a six-pack from someone behind a counter, you’re transferring some amount of Bitcoin to another anonymous token. Over time, all the transactions that people make get lumped into blocks and validated, and they get a special code that takes into account all the codes in the blocks that came before, and thus you have it: a blockchain. According to Bitcoin.org, the Bitcoin blockchain is about 145 gigabytes, though it will be bigger by the time you read this. You can download the whole thing, the entire portrait of the Bitcoin economy, onto a USB drive.That all of this adds up to money is ridiculous, and we should probably mock it more than we do. Consider Bitcoin a grand middle finger. It’s a prank, almost a parody of the global financial system, that turned into a bubble. “You plutocrats of Davos may think you control the global money supply,” the pranksters seem to say. “But humans will make an economy out of anything. Even this!” To be frank, central banking never really ground my gears; it’s just another one of those vast enterprises that we cower beneath, like network TV or religion. But I can see how it would piss people off. Bits gonna coin.It was surprising when some of the big banks issued guardedly positive opinions of Bitcoin and blockchains. But as hidebound as bankers can be, more than the rest of us they see money as an abstraction. Even if they don’t feel Bitcoins in their bones as they might feel interest rates, it’s on an exchange, and people buy it, and it’s got moneylike ambitions. So why not? This could get serious. You can argue, too, that cryptocurrency is a boon to people living under repressive regimes—a Swiss bank account for the smartphone-clutching masses.What Bitcoin actually accomplished is the financialization of a few genuinely joyous ideas. Shrug away the exchange rate, and you have a set of technologies that, for one, allows you to create scarcity. At least of a kind, because you can encode data and information into the blockchain in a way that lets you say, “This is the first one of these particular digital things.” It’s been applied to digital art, and you can see applications for patents, stock photos, things like that. With copies all over the place.What if the most important thing the blockchain offers is a way to build culture?In other words, the blockchain can be a form of media. The writer Maria Bustillos is starting a magazine that will publish on the blockchain—which means it will be impossible to take down. (Disclosure: In theory, I’ll write for Maria, who’s a friend, and she’ll pay me in cryptocurrency, or what she calls “space jewels.”) One of her aims is to make it impossible for people—Peter Thiel, for example, who backed Hulk Hogan’s lawsuit against Gawker—to threaten publications they dislike.You could even make a distributed magazine called Information of Vital Public Interest About Peter Thiel that would be awfully hard to sue into oblivion. It’s the marketplace of ideas. Literally. Try another thought experiment. Remember that anonymously created list of men who worked in media and who were alleged sexual harassers? You could, by whispering the allegations from one wallet to the next, put that information on a blockchain. You could make a web browser plug-in so that whenever someone visited a sexual harasser’s LinkedIn page, that page could glow bright red. You could have a distributed, immutable record of sexual harassment allegations on the internet. (Is there an economy around such allegations? Well, people do pay for gossip. GossipCoin?)I’m not saying this would be a good idea. In fact, I’m pretty sure it’d be a bad one. Point is, this sort of thing used to be prohibitively difficult to pull off at any scale, because anonymity can be hard to protect, and platforms are hard to run and easy to attack. Now the frameworks are coming to build such tools and make them anonymous and decentralized, so that they might endure, and, as with all internet things, they’ll arrive well ahead of the ethics we need to make sense of them.Things were bad enough when people were spending Bitcoin on illegal drugs. We have a lot of work to do.The dot-com crash came in the early 2000s. Ghost offices with empty Aerons. “So much money is going to money heaven,” sighed an investor friend. As companies huddled together in the cold, merging amoebalike into new forms of corporate life, adding then removing exclamation points from their names, I noticed that the people who’d come from real estate, cable-TV editing, and athlete management had left.The dot-com worker became a figure of fun, a jargon-spouting twit who’d driven the economy off a cliff. Which, fair. Myself, I barely could make rent ($590 a month!) with freelance writing jobs in 2002, but I remember that era with far more joy than I’d experienced during the boom. People sought each other out via email lists, gathering at apartments in still-obscure Brooklyn neighborhoods, with beer and snacks as the price of admission, to discuss XML, navigation taxonomies, topic maps, and site architecture. We wrote about these subjects on our websites, each of us a writer, designer, and manager of our own little vest-pocket worlds.Stuff started happening again. Someone released an online game called Game Neverending, and people played it. It fell on hard times, and that was sad, but then the same team released Flickr. Google bought Blogger. Heat and light returned. And bit by bit, the software industry insinuated itself into every aspect of global enterprise. Mobile happened, social networks exploded, jobs returned, and coding schools popped up to convert humans into programmers and feed them to the champing maw of commerce. The abstractions I loved became industries.Bitcoin will crash because of course it will. Bubbles burstPeople feel compelled to make predictions about blockchains. Here’s mine: The current wave of coins will eventually ebb, because it’s a big, inefficient, unholy mess. It’s more ideology than financial instrument, and ideology is rarely a sustainable store of value. Plus, transactions are slow (everyone says they’re fixing that), and you shouldn’t have to use an aluminum smelter’s worth of power to make new currency.Most things that the blockchain promises to do can be done more easily with other technologies, including good ol’ fiat currency. But I know a mind virus when I see it.Here’s what I finally figured out, 25 years in: What Silicon Valley loves most isn’t the products, or the platforms underneath them, but markets. “Figure out the business model later” was the call of the early commercial internet. The way you monetize vast swaths of humanity is by creating products that people use a lot—perhaps a search engine such as Google or a social network like Facebook. You build big transactional web platforms beneath them that provide amazing things, like search results or news feeds ranked by relevance, and then beneath all that you build marketplaces for advertising—a true moneymaking machine. If you happen to create an honest-to-god marketplace, you can get unbelievably rich.In the past, building a market required users, products, all that mess—farmers taking their plump pigs to market. What we have now is a means of spinning up any number of auctions, a method for the mass manufacture of middlemen. This is the destiny of Silicon Valley. And with ICOs and Bitcoin exchanges, we have a marketplace to value marketplaces. What in Galt’s name could be wrong with that? We’ve never (surveys vast tracts of empty Florida homes) had trouble before.America understands new abstractions by financializing them. It’s how our culture absorbs information. Taxicabs, spare bedrooms, public education—we see markets everywhere. Bitcoin and the blockchain came prefinancialized, intended as a replacement for central banking. But what if the most important thing the blockchain offers isn’t a replacement for money but a new way to build culture?I know what it’s like to hold a software idea in your head and see its possibilities arrayed before you like mysterious eggs. Some are rotten, some empty, some contain perfectly adequate chicks—but every now and then, given enough processing power, one could hatch a dragon.Whenever I hear people talk about Bitcoin’s limitless future, I think about Dow 100,000. I first saw it in the old Borders bookshop at the World Trade Center. A few years later, the store was destroyed, and the book title was a sad joke. The markets lost interest in tech for years. Today all the Borders are gone, too.Bubbles are melancholy things—swirls of lies and optimism used to hide a million unrealized yearnings. Bitcoin will crash because of course it will. Bubbles burst. The real estate and athletics management people go home, and the believers remain, meeting up, planning new markets. It could take years, it could take a decade, but the blockchain freaks have a world in their heads, and they won’t rest until it’s real. That the rest of us live here, too, is the least of their concerns. Some of the things they’ll do will be magical, community-building, economically thrilling. Others may keep us up at night.Still, I can’t help but look on in envy. Not for the believers’ possible wealth, because that will elude most. (Even in a distributed money platform, wealth has a way of finding only a few pockets.) I’m jealous that they’ll experience it all: the crash, the rejection, and then the slow rebuild as they learn the difference between toys and tools. They get to participate in the screaming edge of culture. Follow @crypto on Twitter for the latest news.    

2018-03-14T16:04:13.330Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/crypto-advocates-push-for-regulatory-guidance-at-house-hearing
If the top financial watchdogs in the U.S. don’t come up with clearer guidelines for the cryptocurrency market, innovative startups may go elsewhere, according to one of the most popular digital-token exchanges.Coinbase Inc.’s chief legal officer, Mike Lempres, said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission need to work together to more clearly define what digital coins are and who should be regulating them."Congress should insist that the SEC and CFTC coordinate, as they have in the past, to clarify how companies, markets and investors can determine whether an individual token is a security or a commodity,” Lempres said in remarks for a House of Representatives hearing on cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings Wednesday. “The current regulatory environment -- in particular regulation by enforcement without enough clear guidance on what is permissible -- is harming healthy innovation.”Regulators such as SEC Chairman Jay Clayton have argued that existing laws provide plenty of clarity. The agency said last week that cryptocurrency marketplaces offering digital assets that are securities will need to register with the regulator as an exchange, or qualify for an exemption. The warning came days after a person with direct knowledge of the matter said the agency issued subpoenas to firms and individuals behind specific initial coin offerings that the agency believes might be breaking the law.In BillionsSource: CoinDeskMany startups have expressed frustration about the lack of clarity on the legal status of cryptocurrencies. The SEC has said that many of the burgeoning assets are securities, while the CFTC has said that digital tokens are commodities. The Internal Revenue Service treats them like property for tax purposes. There’s no need for a whole new regulatory framework, Lempres said; the agencies just need to spend more time talking to one another.“It is not clear where one regulator’s authority ends and transitions to another,” Lempres said. “The absence of regulatory clarity has slowed our willingness and ability to list new assets.”Coinbase, which currently allows users to trade Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether and Litecoin, has repeatedly shot down speculation about it adding new tokens to its exchange. The San Francisco-based company is not federally licensed with the SEC or the CFTC. Instead, it’s regulated by various states through a patchwork system. The firm recently obtained an e-money license in the U.K., it said Wednesday.“This is not ideal for entrepreneurs because obtaining money transmission licenses from 53 states and territories is costly and duplicative,” said Peter Van Valkenburgh, director of research at the Washington-based Coin Center, in prepared remarks. “This is also not ideal for consumers or investor protection, because money transmission regulation focuses only on the risks of custodying customer funds while in transmission, not in running highly liquid markets in commodity-like assets.”The hearing is being held by the House of Representatives Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Investment.Winklevoss Twins Have a Plan to Police Cryptocurrency Trading

2018-03-12T13:30:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/crypto-craze-finds-few-fans-at-endowments-maybe-not-for-long
Endowments and foundations are steering clear of the crypto-craze. At least for now.Ninety-six percent of top officers at these organizations said they aren’t investing in cryptocurrencies and have no plans to do so, according a survey released Monday by consulting firm NEPC. But plenty of them are intrigued.While just two percent of respondents said they’ve already entered the digital market, about 20 percent of NEPC’s endowment and foundation clients have started looking into the asset class, said Scott Perry, a partner at NEPC. Clients of the Boston-based firm include more than 100 such institutions with total assets of about $62 billion.“Cryptocurrencies in theory could be a real return enhancement and an interesting holding in a world that isn’t awash with lucrative investment ideas,” Perry, who focuses on endowment and foundations, said in a telephone interview.Endowments are on the hunt for returns at a time when their asset mix has come up short. The 10-year average return among U.S. university endowments was 4.6 percent through June 30, according to the National Association of College and University Business Officers. While most institutions aim for annual real returns of 4 percent to 5 percent, investing in a market-tracking index fund holding 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds would have produced a 6.4 percent gain in the same time, making the fees attached to hedge funds and other under performing alternative strategies fees difficult to justify.Bitcoin, the first widely used and largest digital currency, is proving to be among the most intriguing -- and terrifying -- asset classes. In the span of just nine months, it has reached a record high of almost $20,000 only to plummet to roughly half that. Yet that still leaves the notoriously volatile currency up more than 300 percent since July, the start of the fiscal year for most universities. Which explains why NEPC doesn’t recommend cryptocurrencies to institutional clients.“There are still just so many questions surrounding volatility, liquidity and regulation,” Perry said. “We take a strong view against its representation in our clients’ portfolios.”Read our QuickTake on bitcoin hereAside from avoiding digital currencies, 40 percent of survey respondents said they planned to dump their domestic equity holdings in part because they don’t expect the bull market to continue its run.The NEPC expects U.S. stocks to gain 6 percent annually over the next five years. Meanwhile, the S&P 500 is up about 14 percent since July 1. That comes after a particularly lucrative fiscal 2017, when U.S. stocks outperformed private equity and hedge funds, raising questions as to why endowments and foundations were paying high fees for low returns.Endowments and foundations are looking abroad for returns. Almost half of the business officers surveyed by NEPC said they thought emerging market stocks would produce the highest returns in 2018. About a quarter said they were increasing allocations to the asset class, while 68 percent said their positions would remain unchanged. On average, among the endowments and foundation polled, business officers allocated about 6 percent to emerging markets.The NEPC survey, conducted last month, is based on interviews with 47 business officers at U.S. endowment and foundations.

2018-03-14T21:15:44.054Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/five-things-you-need-to-know-to-start-your-day-jerl4mw3
Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up hereInvestors are coping with concerns about a potential trade war amid shakeups at the White House. At the same time, an announcement on the next head of the PBOC looms, while bond giant Pimco is worried about Australia. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about.The risk of a trade war appears to be rising after the departures of Gary Cohn and Rex Tillerson from the White House, strategists worry. U.S. stocks declined after starting the session in the green Wednesday, and the U.S. dollar was lower. Pictet strategist Luca Paolini said Wednesday that the chances of a trade war are still low, but rising, while Amundi Pioneer Asset Management sees the U.S. dollar falling about 12 percent within two years. The move to President Donald Trump's intended replacement as Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, can be viewed as a victory for trade hardliners, said Evercore ISI's Terry Haines.Trump’s firing of his top diplomat raises the stakes even further for his proposed summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. In the months before his ouster, Rex Tillerson bumped heads with the president over whether to talk to North Korea -- and wasn’t consulted before Trump agreed to meet Kim. Mike Pompeo, the hawkish CIA chief nominated to replace him as secretary of state, has defended Trump’s snap decision on the talks. Concern among North Korea watchers of a military conflict is growing should diplomacy fail.Pacific Investment Management Co. is cutting its investments in Australian bank debt because of lofty valuations as well as trimming holdings of real estate and retailers’ bonds. The unwinding of some of its holdings in Australian lenders’ debt is the first such move in about five years by the $1.75 trillion money manager. Pimco’s reduction of its exposure to notes sold by real estate investment trusts and retailers Down Under reflects concerns that surging personal debt will constrain consumption, according to Aaditya Thakur, senior vice president and portfolio manager in Sydney.Trump has chosen economist and CNBC contributor Larry Kudlow to replace Gary Cohn as director of the White House National Economic Council, adding a longtime confidant to the president’s inner circle. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Kudlow “was offered, and accepted, the position.” Kudlow, 70, is expected to provide familiarity and loyalty to Trump as the president removes moderating and dissenting voices from his administration. President Xi Jinping’s pick to lead the People’s Bank of China will finally be announced March 19, five months after incumbent governor Zhou Xiaochuan said he’d retire “soon.” If Zhou does step down after 15 years in charge, he’ll be handing on the reins of a central bank that’s much more influential than the one he took over, both at home and abroad. Guo Shuqing, 61, Jiang Chaoliang, 60, Liu He, 66, Xie Fuzhan, 63, and Yi Gang, 60, are five of the top contenders for one of global central banking’s most important jobs, though  there’s no guarantee that the ultimate winner of the post is among those five.This is what caught our eye over the last 24 hours.

2018-03-14T05:30:00.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/coinbase-gets-a-u-k-money-license-and-reportedly-a-bank-account
Coinbase Inc., one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges, said it obtained an e-money license in the U.K. as it expands services in Europe. The firm also opened an account at Barclays Plc, easing deposits and withdrawal for clients.The license will let Coinbase provide payment services and issue e-money in the country, enabling it to strike more partnerships with other companies, the venture said Wednesday in a statement. The rights, granted by the nation’s Financial Conduct Authority, will extend to more than 20 other European Union countries, it said.San Francisco-based Coinbase, which helps investors buy and sell Bitcoin and other major virtual currencies, said business in the EU grew at double the pace of any other market last year, and that it’s hiring in the U.K. to meet demand. On Wednesday, the company said it will start supporting institutional clients’ transactions via the U.K.’s Faster Payments Scheme, a network used by the traditional financial industry.The firm has also established a “full banking relationship” with Barclays, said Coinbase’s U.K. chief, Zeeshan Feroz, in an interview Wednesday. Ultimately, deposits and withdrawals for U.K. customers will be routed through the British financial giant. Such an account is notable because some major banks, under government pressure to track money flows for signs of illicit activity, have been reluctant to handle funds from firms dealing in often-opaque cryptocurrencies.“We’ve been looking for accounts for over a year and have spoken to several banks,” Feroz said. “Barclays did a lot of due diligence on us as a business. We opened our doors and went through an open process with them.”Coinbase plans to maintain its relationship with LHV, its current European banking partner in Estonia, he said. The exchange also has worked with Cross River Bank, Metropolitan Bank and Silvergate Bank in the U.S., a person familiar with the matter said in December.

2018-03-14T22:12:41.670Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-14/asian-stocks-face-weak-start-as-caution-sets-in-markets-wrap
U.S. stocks ended mixed Thursday, as industrial and tech gains were offset by losses in the consumer and energy sector. Ten-year Treasury yields steadied after briefly sinking below 2.80 percent as traders look forward to next week’s Federal Reserve policy decision.With volume running about 17 percent below average, the S&P 500 Index notched its longest losing streak of 2018 -- four days. The Empire Manufacturing Index exceeded projections and initial jobless claims came in just below estimates, signaling continuing strength in the U.S. economy. While an increase in borrowing costs at the Fed meeting is seen as a done deal, it remains an open question whether U.S. policy makers will lift their expectations for the pace of future increases.“The factory orders number in conjunction with the possibility of another round of tax cuts would bolster the somewhat weakening growth story we’ve seen the past two weeks,” Kevin Caron, a senior portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, said by phone.Pipeline stocks plunged after the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ruled that master-limited partnerships can no longer recover a key income-tax allowance. Investors are weighing prospects for more U.S. trade protectionism after new White House appointee Larry Kudlow signaled support for a strong dollar and took a tough line on China. Gold declined after Kudlow said he’d sell the metal and buy the greenback, which gained.The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced, with big gains in insurance and financial shares. Norway’s krone rose to the strongest level since early February after its central bank signaled faster interest-rate increases. The yen gained for a third day this week.Elsewhere, West Texas crude advanced above $61 a barrel as signs of stronger U.S. fuel consumption balanced OPEC’s forecasting for the first time that new supplies from its rivals will exceed demand growth this year.BofA’s Michelle Meyer says recent data shows "continued strength" in the U.S. economy.Terminal users can read more in our markets blog.Here are some of the key things happening this week:And these are the main moves in markets:— With assistance by Adam Haigh, Tim Loh, Stephen Cunningham, and Eddie van der Walt

2018-03-09T08:06:26.070Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-09/bitcoin-s-bad-week-is-getting-worse-as-selloff-deepens-to-20
Bitcoin’s rough week headed for a bitter ending.The virtual currency fell 6 percent to $8,760 at 12:30 p.m. in New York Friday, after earlier losing as much as 10 percent.Bitcoin has slumped more than 20 percent this week amid increased regulatory scrutiny in the U.S. and Japan, an attempted theft at one of the biggest trading venues, and news that the bankruptcy trustee for Mt. Gox has started selling the now-defunct exchange’s holdings to repay creditors.“The screen is flashing red today and people are getting fearful,” said Caleb Yap, co-founder of Singapore Bitcoin Club. “Weak hands are definitely wanting to sell. If Mt. Gox can dump $400 million of Bitcoin just like that and there’s still billions left, the fear is when is the big drop coming.”Mt. Gox’s bankruptcy trustee, Nobuaki Kobayashi, disclosed on Wednesday in Tokyo that he sold about $400 million of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash since late September, part of the hoard left behind when the exchange collapsed four years ago. Kobayashi is studying further sales of the $1.8 billion remaining.The sale might be “the largest ever liquidation of crypto to fiat,” according to Thomas Lee, head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors. In a report Friday, he said that the firm’s “bitcoin misery index” -- a gauge of how investors feel about prices -- is currently at 19, the lowest level since 2011. Still, the Bitcoin bull reiterated his view that the top digital coin will reach $25,000 by the end of this year.Signs of growing regulatory scrutiny have added to investor jitters. On Thursday, Japan’s Financial Services Agency ordered two exchanges to halt operations for a month and penalized four others. That announcement came just hours after a warning from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that many online trading platforms should register with the agency.Around the same time, Binance, one of the world’s biggest crypto exchanges, said it had been the target of a “large-scale phishing and stealing attempt.” While it said “all funds are safe,” Binance noted that it was unable to reverse some trades from accounts targeted by the hackers.“These are all growing pains,” said SJ Oh, a Hong Kong-based trader at Octagon Strategy Ltd. “And while hurtful today, the fact that regulators are cracking down will be good for the long run.”— With assistance by Justina Lee

2018-03-12T15:46:37.844Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/nymex-veteran-targets-institutions-with-cryptocurrency-exchange
The lucrative market for cryptocurrency exchanges may soon have some competition for institutional investors.J. Robert Collins Jr., the former president of the New York Mercantile Exchange, plans to launch the San Juan Mercantile Exchange in October as a venue for broker dealers and other professional investors to trade digital assets such as Bitcoin and Ripple. The venture is an attempt to bring a level of reliability that the legions of cryptocurrency exchanges have struggled to achieve, Collins said in an interview.From Coinbase Inc.’s GDAX to Kraken, the biggest venues have suffered crashes during periods of high volume and customers have experienced days-long delays when trying to withdraw or transfer funds. Other exchanges, notably Coincheck Inc., have been hacked. These issues have kept institutions largely on the sidelines of the cryptocurrency market, Collins said.“From a fiduciary standpoint, there’s almost no one taking chances with existing crypto websites,” he said by phone. “What we want to prepare for and help facilitate is when a really large broker dealer wants to give access to their millions of clients but they want to do it in a safe and sound, secure way, run by professionals.”The exchange is far from a done deal. Collins, who hasn’t received outside financing for the project, hasn’t finalized an agreement with digital custody providers yet. Exchange members will have to be accredited investors, own a percentage of the exchange and undergo know-your-customer and anti-money-laundering checks, he said.He’s going after an increasingly profitable part of the financial world, where existing exchanges charge fees that average 0.3 percent and lead to millions of dollars in revenue a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 10 biggest crypto trading platforms are processing volume of about $200 million to as much as $1.7 billion per day, according to CoinMarketCap.Collins’s venture will use proprietary software that can process 1.5 million transactions per second and billions of dollars in volume a day, Collins said. That compares to Binance, the second-largest exchange by trading volume that processes 1.4 million transactions per second, according to its website.Collins also plans to open a bank, the San Juan Mercantile Bank and Trust, which will hold member deposits in U.S. dollars. Connectivity to the exchange will allow for fast processing of funds, he said.The bank will be based in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with a license to operate as an international financial entity with banking and trust company powers, and will be regulated by Puerto Rico’s Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions. It will also be regulated by the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network under the Bank Secrecy Act, Collins said.The Securities and Exchange Commission last week warned that cryptocurrency trading platforms offering digital tokens that can be considered securities should register as an exchange. Collins said his exchange will steer clear of those tokens and offer only digital currencies, which fall under the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. He plans to headquarter the exchange in Chicago.Collins was Nymex president from 2001 to 2004 and oversaw the transition from open outcry to electronic trading, creating centralized clearing service ClearPort, and then launching the first day session of electronic trading. He’s seeing a similar shift now.“The Nymex experience, in terms of having to learn to adapt, has informed me looking at this industry and I see it needs help adapting to what really is this invention centered around blockchain,” he said. “Someone will help it adapt. We think our exchange accelerates that process.”

2018-03-13T14:13:25.546Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-13/dealmaking-gets-harder-under-trump
National security.One area where Donald Trump is more economically populist than I had expected is: He really does seem interested in blocking big mergers. In November, for instance, the Justice Department sued to block AT&T Inc.'s planned acquisition of Time Warner Inc., and then yesterday Trump himself issued an executive order blocking Broadcom Ltd.'s proposed hostile takeover of Qualcomm Inc. on national security grounds. The worry of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. was not that Broadcom -- a Singapore-based company racing frantically to reincorporate itself in the U.S. -- would do bad things with the technology it acquired from Qualcomm, but rather that it would underinvest in the research and development and allow China's Huawei Technologies Co. to take the lead in building out 5G mobile technology. That may well be right. "It's hard for Broadcom to battle those criticisms," writes my Bloomberg Gadfly colleague Brooke Sutherland: "The company has relied on cost cuts from acquisitions to propel its profit higher and most likely would have needed to cut deeply at Qualcomm to maintain its investment-grade credit rating." But while this is a common criticism of mergers -- that acquirers load down companies with debt and cut costs to repay it, eliminating jobs and stifling innovation -- it is not a traditional reason for the government to block them. Sometimes the target of a hostile deal will raise these complaints to its shareholders -- "don't vote for this deal, it will slash research and destroy what made our company so great in the first place," that sort of thing -- but it is usually for the shareholders to decide whether they believe that and how much it matters. If the shareholders would rather take the money and leave the business's fate to the acquirer, the governmental reaction has traditionally been "ehh, what are ya gonna do, capitalism."But now, maybe, not so much? With (selectively) reinvigorated antitrust enforcement, reinvigorated CFIUS review, and a president who sure seems happy to block mergers for political or personal-offense reasons, there are just a lot more ways to stop a merger, if that's what you are looking to do. Antitrust review typically scrutinized horizontal combinations but gave plenty of leeway to vertical combinations of companies that didn't directly compete with each other; the AT&T/Time Warner lawsuit changed that understanding. CFIUS review typically scrutinized acquisitions by foreign companies that might make hostile use of U.S. technology; the Broadcom/Qualcomm order changed that understanding: Now a takeover by any foreign acquirer might be blocked on national-security grounds if it might lead to cuts in research. Lawyer John Kabealo "said the president’s order could dramatically change the world of mergers and acquisitions and open the door to the possibility that more bankers and lawyers would use reviews by the foreign investment committee to block hostile takeovers on national security grounds."Traditionally the way the target of a hostile deal argues against that deal is by saying that it will be bad for shareholders; in some limited cases -- horizontal mergers in concentrated industries -- it might be able to block the deal by arguing that it will be bad for consumers. But now the audiences have broadened: You can block a deal by arguing that it will be bad for media concentration, or for U.S. technology innovation, or for Donald Trump's personal brand. There are more variables to play with, more scope for creativity, more room for a clever adviser to fend off a merger by finding the right people to appeal to and the right way to appeal to them.Incidentally here's an odd thing about CFIUS's objections to the proposed Broadcom/Qualcomm deal. "Broadcom’s statements indicate that it is looking to take a ‘private-equity’-style direction if it acquires Qualcomm," says CFIUS, "which means reducing long-term investment, such as R&D, and focusing on short-term profitability." We have spent the last, I don't know, five years talking constantly about arguments that U.S. public stock markets encourage short-term thinking and discourage long-term investment. But CFIUS argues that taking a company out of U.S. public ownership -- by a private-equity buyout, or by a "'private-equity'-style" public-company merger -- makes the problem even worse. That is of course plausible -- there might be a hierarchy of long-termism in which venture-backed private companies are at the top, public companies range widely over the middle, and private-equity buyouts are at the bottom -- but it is still odd. Companies are valuable because of the long-term value of their expected future cash flows. If some segment of the market forgets this and myopically focuses on short-term earnings, then that would be strange enough, and you'd expect it to be arbitraged away: If public markets are too short-term-focused, you'd expect private-equity-backed buyouts that give companies enough room to focus on the long term; if private equity funds are too short-term-focused then you'd expect them not to be able to pay public-market valuations. But if everyone is too short-term-focused, then ... how could you tell? If everyone with money at stake agrees on the proper time horizon for valuation, then what does it mean to say that that time horizon is too short?Goldman succession. "If I come over to your house at Thanksgiving and I sharpen your knife, you will definitively know the difference right away," Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-President Harvey Schwartz told the New York Times in November, and while he was talking about his early job working in a butcher shop, there was at least the hint of a metaphor. Schwartz, a karate black belt and expert knife-sharpener, was locked in a succession battle with his co-president David Solomon, whose extracurricular activities run toward electronic music DJ'ing, eating at fancy restaurants and drinking expensive wine. While Solomon was partying, Schwartz studied the blade.But yesterday Solomon was declared the winner in the succession battle, and all of the accounts of that battle so far are ... frankly a little tame? The story is basically that Solomon impressed the board -- and current Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein -- and so they declared him the winner, and Schwartz announced that he was leaving with gratitude for "an incredible 21 years." "Behind the Goldman Sachs Race to the Top Was a Quiet Battle for Blankfein's Favor," is the Bloomberg News headline, and I hope they baked him cupcakes on alternating days. ("How Solomon won cage match to become Goldman heir apparent" is the Financial Times's more dramatic headline, but nothing in the story is inconsistent with cupcakes.) I would like to assume there was at least a little dirty dealing, desperate lobbying, midnight intrigues, but so far none of that has really come out. On the surface everything seems pretty placid.Schwartz and Solomon, who look uncannily like each other, Blankfein, and most other powerful Goldman executives of recent vintage (white, male, bald), are easy to interpret not as individual humans with different strengths and relationships and skills, but as symbols of the past and future of Wall Street. Schwartz grew up in the commodities sales and trading business, like Blankfein; Solomon grew up in leveraged finance. In crude terms, Schwartz codes as "trader," Solomon as "investment banker." When Blankfein came to power 12 years ago, traders were ascendant and Goldman was widely viewed as a hedge fund disguised as an investment bank; now that Blankfein is choosing a successor, traders are on the decline, regulation limits banks' risk-taking, and Goldman Sachs is accepting retail deposits and doing consumer loans on the internet. Of course Goldman's symbolic trader lost out to its symbolic investment banker. That story feels a little overstated to me: Solomon is not a classic investment banker but a leveraged finance guy; his training is not so much in relationship-building as it is in knowing markets and committing the firm's capital to big transactions. "Unlike Mr. Blankfein and Mr. Schwartz, Mr. Solomon is not steeped in the firm’s cutthroat trading culture," notes the New York Times, but he worked at Salomon Brothers, Drexel Burnham Lambert and Bear Stearns before joining Goldman as a partner, so it's hard to imagine he never saw any throats cut along his way. Meanwhile Schwartz grew up in derivatives, sure, but his background is not all knives and karate: "As co-president, he helped shepherd the firm’s consumer-lending initiative, Marcus, to its 2016 launch." You could imagine a story of Goldman Sachs in which its sales and trading business becomes more commoditized and less risky -- where the innovation comes in computerizing trading rather than in building risky new principal-trading products -- while its investment banking business becomes riskier and more aggressive, in which Goldman's risk and capital commitments migrate more to the investment banking side as trading gets reined in.(Disclosure: I used to work at Goldman, as a banker who built derivatives, so arguably I combine the best of both worlds and would be willing to shave my head if the right offer came along.)VIX beta.Here is a story about a Goldman Sachs research note finding that "no safe havens -- and no assets or equity sectors -- have had a positive beta to the VIX recently." That is, when the CBOE Volatility Index goes up -- because the U.S. stock market becomes more volatile -- no asset class goes up with it; stocks and bonds and gold and oil all fall as stock-market volatility rises. (Bitcoin too, though Goldman doesn't say that.)But you know what has a positive beta to the VIX? VIX products! (Not inverse ones!) Now that you can just go buy futures or exchange-traded funds that go up when the VIX goes up, you do not need to study correlation matrixes to find a product that will make you money when volatility increases. You can just go buy a thing that pays you money when volatility increases. The correlation of the VIXY ETF and the VIX is about 0.9. Now this is not exactly a satisfying response to Goldman's note. VIX ETFs are not really a big asset class, and if you wanted to hedge a multibillion-dollar portfolio against the risk of equity volatility, you might find it annoying to do via VIX futures. But ... why would you want to hedge a multibillion-dollar portfolio against the risk of equity volatility? Why do you care about volatility? You might want to hedge your huge portfolio against the risk that things in it go down; you might do that by buying things that go up when other things go down. That might be more challenging than it used to be, but it is also a different challenge from buying things that go up when volatility goes up. You could imagine a story in which the development of volatility products caused this breakdown in correlation: Back in the olden days, when you needed to buy gold to hedge against rising equity volatility, gold prices obligingly went up when equity volatility did. But now that you can buy equity volatility directly there is no need to hedge against it with gold, and gold has quite sensibly become a worse hedge against volatility.People are worried about unicorns.Dropbox Inc. announced the pricing range for its initial public offering, and it looks like it will be a down round:Silicon Valley darling Dropbox Inc. is aiming to go public at a valuation well below the $10 billion it clocked in its last private funding round, despite posting healthy revenue growth and turning cash-flow positive in the intervening four years.So that's a little weird: The private markets valued Dropbox more highly when it was a worse company than the public markets seem to now that it's a better company. The gap between private valuations and public market aspirations highlights the disconnect between the premium that private investors put on potential innovation, and the financials-based analysis that public market shareholders are focused on.I guess that is right, but I am troubled by the notion that valuation choices between "Silicon Valley" and "Wall Street" are essentially aesthetic, that private investors like companies that look like this while public investors like companies that look like that. The more traditional analysis is that stock prices are the discounted present value of estimated future cash flows, and that if the public market and the private market estimate those cash flows differently, one of them is wrong. We might not know which until the long term arrives, but if there are persistent valuation differences between public and private markets it seems unlikely that they are attributable entirely to different preferences. More likely they involve different factual beliefs, too, and eventually one market or the other will have to revise its valuations to reflect reality.In other unicorn-listing news: "Spotify Technology SA plans to list shares on the New York Stock Exchange the week of April 2, according to people with knowledge of the matter, giving the company weeks to prepare for an unconventional debut."The crypto.This is reassuring!The Binance exchange is offering $250,000–paid in cryptocurrency–to anyone who provides information that leads to the arrest of the hackers who attempted to steal funds, it said on Sunday. Additionally, Binance said it has set aside up to $10 million in crypto reserves for bounty awards against any future illegal hacking attempts.“Even though the hacking attempt against Binance on March 7th was not successful, it was clear it was a large-scale, organized effort,” Binance said. “This needs to be addressed.”Imagine if a bank announced that it had set aside millions of dollars to pay bounties when it gets hacked. I feel like regulators would be like "do you not have ... more reliable methods to keep your data safe?" Reserving money to pay bounty hunters is such a strange combination of modern accrual accounting methods and ancient techniques of vendetta; obviously it is perfect for a cryptocurrency exchange. Also it is impressive that the reserve is 40 times the bounty they are offering here. It suggests that they are expecting 40 more similar hacks in the future. How excited would you be to give your money to an exchange that plans to be hacked 40 times?Elsewhere, crypto miners can be annoying neighbors. And: "Ripple Loses Bid to Keep Its Cryptocurrency Fight in California." And: "Endowments and foundations are steering clear of the crypto-craze. At least for now."People are worried about bond market liquidity.We talked last week about Martin Fridson's argument that high-yield bonds aren't volatile enough: They "exhibit fewer extreme price moves than would be expected in a properly functioning market." Here is Alexandra Scaggs with more about why that might be; one possible answer is, of course, liquidity:The logic to this idea is that during market selloffs, traders might just look at the prices of bonds that are trading, and use those prices to figure out how far they should mark down the bonds that aren't trading. Seems sensible enough.The only problem is that the bonds that get traded during a selloff are probably the same ones that get traded all the time, like bonds held by ETFs. And those are more likely to command premium pricing in a selloff, when HY companies face rising risk of default. “The fear of getting trapped in a failing credit all the way to bankruptcy becomes more acute at such times,” Fridson writes.That is: High-yield bonds don't look especially volatile because the high-yield bonds whose values are volatile don't trade much, especially during times of volatility, so that volatility doesn't show up in their prices.Things happen.Hedge Funds That Use AI Just Had Their Worst Month Ever. Bank of America Proxy Shows CEO Made 250 Times More Than Median Employee. Venezuelan Debt: Further Thoughts on “Why Not Accelerate and Sue Venezuela Now?” Larry Kudlow Emerges as Trump Favorite to Replace Cohn, Sources Say. The Rich Aren't Happy About New Zealand Foreign Bolthole Ban. Meet The Maserati-Driving Deadhead Lawyer Who Stands Between Hackers And Prison. Offices Get Redesigned for an Instagram World. Here's Jeff Bezos eating an iguana.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-03-07T17:34:38.969Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-07/bitcoin-dives-after-sec-says-crypto-platforms-must-be-registered
Bitcoin steadied after two days of losses as investors weighed the impact of a clampdown on cryptocurrency exchanges in Japan and renewed regulatory scrutiny of the venues in the U.S.The biggest virtual currency was flat at just under $10,000 as of 8:38 a.m. in London, after earlier slumping more than 4 percent during Asia trading hours. It has dropped about 10 percent this week.Japan’s Financial Services Agency ordered two exchanges to halt operations for a month and penalized four others on Thursday, just hours after a warning from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that many online trading platforms should register with the agency. The moves are the latest in a series of efforts by global regulators to increase oversight of the industry.While signs of tighter regulation tend to weigh on digital-asset prices, some observers have argued that more government involvement would make the nascent markets safer for the hordes of individual investors who piled during last year’s speculative boom. Several of cryptocurrency venues have been hit by cyberthefts, trading outages and allegations of market manipulation.“The number of events, the frequency of events that have occurred in the last short period of time has basically said to the regulators ‘Okay, we can’t just let this keep going, we have to act,”’ Ivan Zasarsky, Hong Kong-based China Financial Crime Leader with Deloitte’s APAC Financial Crime Network, said in a phone interview.News on Wednesday that hackers had caused “irregular trades” at Binance, one of the world’s biggest cryptocurrency exchanges, highlighted the risks of using platforms that often operate in a legal grey zone. While Binance said that no funds had been stolen, the exchange also said it was unable to reverse some of the errant trades, without clarifying further.The clampdown in Japan, one of the few major countries to develop a licensing system for cryptocurrency exchanges, came a month after Tokyo-based Coincheck Inc. lost nearly $500 million in the biggest cyber theft of its kind.Read more: Coincheck to Start Paying Back Victims of $500 Million HeistTwo exchanges — FSHO and bit station — were instructed to halt operations for a month, the FSA said at a briefing in Tokyo, while GMO Internet Inc.’s GMO Coin, Tech Bureau Corp.’s Zaif, Bicrements and Mr. Exchange also face sanctions. The FSA ordered Coincheck to revise its management structure, improve anti-money laundering procedures and submit a report by March 22.“They’re not going to allow anything to move without regulatory oversight in that market,” said Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia Pacific at Oanda Corp. “The FSA are extremely sensitive to regulatory compliance.”In the U.S., the SEC said for the first time that platforms serving as venues for digital assets that are securities will need to register with the agency as a national exchange, or qualify for an exemption.Many platforms are referring to themselves as “exchanges,” which can give the “misimpression” to investors that they are regulated or meet the regulatory standards of a national securities exchange, the SEC said in its statement, which was issued by the agency’s trading and markets unit and its enforcement division.The enforcement division’s involvement shows the potential pitfalls for digital-coin platforms that don’t heed the SEC’s warning to register with the agency: they could be sued and shut down.Exchanges that register with the agency have a high compliance burden, including being subject to inspections. They are also required to police their markets and follow SEC rules designed to ensure fair trading.Some of the largest cryptocurrency trading platforms, including Coinbase Inc.’s GDAX, aren’t registered as a exchange with the SEC, and instead have money transmission licenses with separate states. Gemini is regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services as a trust company, according to its website, while Templum LLC is an affiliate to Liquid M Capital, which is registered as an alternative trading system with the SEC. Overstock.com Inc.’s tZero says it aims to be a fully-compliant trading platform.Coinbase said in a statement that it complies with all applicable laws. “Under the current SEC guidance, Coinbase and the GDAX exchange are exempt from registration requirements as they do not list assets that could be considered securities,” it said. The company said it plans to continue discussing regulation of cryptocurrencies with authorities.“We applaud the SEC’s statement,” Gemini President Cameron Winklevoss said in a statement. “The trading of ICO tokens that are unregistered securities on unlicensed exchanges has gone on for far too long. This is dangerous for consumers and bad for the cryptocurrency ecosystem as whole.”Users of Binance complained online that their accounts had been hacked, and took to social networks Reddit and Twitter to say that hackers had sold their smaller coins and purchased a cryptocurrency called Viacoin.A QuickTake explainer on regulators’ crypto-crackdownThe exchange said in a statement on its website that it had been the target of a “large scale phishing and stealing attempt.” While it said “all funds are safe,” Binance noted that it was unable to reverse some trades from accounts targeted by the hackers.“We again advise all traders to take special precaution to secure their account credentials,” Binance said.Zhao Changpeng, the exchange’s chief executive officer, didn’t immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.— With assistance by Jesse Westbrook, David Scheer, Eric Lam, and Justina Lee

2018-03-13T13:30:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-13/imf-makes-g-20-push-to-police-dark-side-of-crypto-currencies
The International Monetary Fund can play a central role in coordinating the global regulation of crypto-currencies so they aren’t used for illegal purposes, said Managing Director Christine Lagarde.Lagarde, in a blog post on Tuesday, cautioned about the “dark side” of digital cash and its potential to finance terrorism or facilitate money laundering. More needs to be done to address the threat and the fund will play its part, she said. Central bankers and finance chiefs from the Group of 20 will discuss the regulation of crypto-currencies when they gather next week in Buenos Aires.See what central banks are doing about digital currencies“No country can handle this challenge alone,” she wrote. “We are uniquely situated to be a forum for helping develop answers in the evolving crypto-asset space.”The IMF’s offer comes amid a growing chorus to improve oversight of the technology, which surged in popularity last year when the digital currency Bitcoin hit an all-time high. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney has expressed concern about the volatility of crypto-currencies, and U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has pledged to work with the G-20 to prevent them from becoming the digital equivalent of anonymous bank accounts.“Of course, money laundering and terrorist financing is only one dimension of the threat,” Lagarde wrote. “Financial stability is another. The rapid growth of crypto-assets, the extreme volatility in their traded prices, and their ill-defined connections to the traditional financial world could easily create new vulnerabilities.”She provided some recommended strategies to start addressing the dangers posed by crypto-currencies, including the following:Lagarde said that countries will have to work together on a regulatory framework, considering most digital currencies aren’t bound to a single country or central bank. “It would not be wise to dismiss crypto-assets,” she wrote. “We must welcome their potential but also recognize their risks.”

2018-03-13T13:30:00.000Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-13/imf-makes-g-20-push-to-police-dark-side-of-crypto-currencies
The International Monetary Fund can play a central role in coordinating the global regulation of crypto-currencies so they aren’t used for illegal purposes, said Managing Director Christine Lagarde.Lagarde, in a blog post on Tuesday, cautioned about the “dark side” of digital cash and its potential to finance terrorism or facilitate money laundering. More needs to be done to address the threat and the fund will play its part, she said. Central bankers and finance chiefs from the Group of 20 will discuss the regulation of crypto-currencies when they gather next week in Buenos Aires.See what central banks are doing about digital currencies“No country can handle this challenge alone,” she wrote. “We are uniquely situated to be a forum for helping develop answers in the evolving crypto-asset space.”The IMF’s offer comes amid a growing chorus to improve oversight of the technology, which surged in popularity last year when the digital currency Bitcoin hit an all-time high. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney has expressed concern about the volatility of crypto-currencies, and U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has pledged to work with the G-20 to prevent them from becoming the digital equivalent of anonymous bank accounts.“Of course, money laundering and terrorist financing is only one dimension of the threat,” Lagarde wrote. “Financial stability is another. The rapid growth of crypto-assets, the extreme volatility in their traded prices, and their ill-defined connections to the traditional financial world could easily create new vulnerabilities.”She provided some recommended strategies to start addressing the dangers posed by crypto-currencies, including the following:Lagarde said that countries will have to work together on a regulatory framework, considering most digital currencies aren’t bound to a single country or central bank. “It would not be wise to dismiss crypto-assets,” she wrote. “We must welcome their potential but also recognize their risks.”

2018-03-14T14:18:44.041Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-14/banks-try-to-do-less-pointless-work
Banking culture.Here's William Cohan's profile of new Goldman Sachs Group Inc. heir-apparent David Solomon, who has been closely involved in Goldman's efforts to become kinder and gentler. Here is what that means:Of all of our many discussions over the years, Solomon seemed to be at his most passionate when talking about his efforts to change the Goldman culture from the high-powered sweat shop to a place where a healthy work-life balance can be achieved by making sure people are working, at most, around 70 hours a week—still a lot—when not in the middle of a deal. As one of the heads of investment banking before becoming a co-president with Schwartz, Solomon tracked closely the hours worked by the firm’s young bankers and instituted the program by which only those bankers in deal heat could be working from 9 P.M. Friday to 9 A.M. Sunday. Under Solomon leadership, Goldman forced its senior bankers to put outlines together before just willy-nilly assigning work to their teams. He monitored just how many hours bankers were working. He appointed one of his senior bankers to think about the experience of the junior bankers at Goldman and how that experience needed to change. He instituted boundaries around junior bankers at Goldman in a profound effort to change the culture. He calls analysts and associates who he can see are working too many hours and tells them to stop. If they don’t, he tells them, it will hurt their career. It’s a powerful message.On the one hand I am mostly on board with Cohan's (and Solomon's) view that this is "a profound effort to change the culture," that the culture of endless work is bad and should be changed, and that a key step in changing the culture is for very senior bankers to tell juniors that endless work is not only unnecessary but also bad for their careers. (Disclosure: I used to work at Goldman, where one thing that I never did to hurt my career was work too many hours.) On the other hand 70 hours a week "when not in the middle of a deal" is a lot of hours. That's 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Monday through Friday, plus 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Sunday. Doing that every week won't kill you, but it also won't leave a ton of time to develop the interesting hobbies that seem to be expected of a senior Goldman executive. And then, you know, sometimes there will be deals! Then, it is just assumed, endless work will be the order of the day. The deals might kill you.There are two aspects of banking work culture that are bad for junior bankers. One is the culture of work for work's sake, of endless revisions to pitchbooks, of lazy confused last-minute assignments that keep analysts at the office all night because their vice president couldn't be more organized. Goldman, and the industry generally, seem to be taking real, though incremental, steps to change that.But the other aspect is the culture of work for the client's sake, of treating live deals as all-consuming all-important emergencies. Sometimes they are, of course; if you were working on the Bear Stearns acquisition 10 years ago time really was of the essence. Other times ... you know ... companies want to negotiate and announce mergers quickly ... but lives do not exactly depend on it. A merger next week is almost as good as a merger this week. This aspect is much harder to change than the culture of makework, because it actually makes commercial sense: Clients want their deals done quickly, and if you are not willing to do that then they'll go to someone else. Telling the client "it'll get done when it gets done, but I'm not available this weekend because I'm bingeing 'Jessica Jones'" is perfectly acceptable to the extent that investment banking is a high-status aristocratic profession in which clients revere and defer to the professionals (try it if you're a brain surgeon), but it's much less possible to the extent that investment banking is an always-available service profession where clients demand total dedication and are happy to go to a competitor if they don't get it. The deep problem of cultural repair is about shifting the status of the profession, and it may be too late for that.CDS.We have talked from time to time around here about creepy cool stuff that people sometimes do with credit default swaps. By "people" I mean mostly Blackstone Group's GSO Capital Partners unit, and by "creepy cool stuff" I mean striking deals with troubled companies in which (1) GSO lends those companies money, improving their financial situation and allowing them to avoid default and bankruptcy, and (2) in exchange those companies do quickie fake-ish defaults on their debt, triggering CDS contracts that GSO owns and making a quick profit for GSO. (The classic of the form is Codere; a recent and lovely example is Hovnanian.)A lot of outside observers, and pretty much everyone who sells CDS to GSO, find this stuff extremely distasteful and think that it violates the spirit of the credit-default swaps market. I am not so sure: Certainly GSO seems to spend a lot of time sharpening its elbows and doing stuff that CDS sellers didn't anticipate, but the spirit of the CDS market is a nebulous thing, and arguably GSO isn't so much violating that spirit as it is perfecting and elevating it. CDS is a way for an investor to bet on the creditworthiness of a company. The traditional way to bet on the creditworthiness of a company is to lend it money, and selling CDS is in some sense a less socially productive alternative: Instead of betting on the creditworthiness of a company by lending it money to pursue business opportunities, you bet on its creditworthiness in a zero-sum derivative with your hedge-fund buddies. GSO's essential innovation is to transform those unproductive zero-sum bets back into loans to companies: It took money from the CDS sellers who bet on the companies' credit, and used that money to subsidize actual loans to the companies. It is not necessarily the use for which CDS was intended, but there's an argument that it's an even better use.But really that is a pretty tentative view of the goodness of GSO's maneuverings, and I seem to be alone in it. Even GSO doesn't really believe it: Bennett Goodman, who runs GSO, said last week that maybe the rules should be changed to prevent this sort of thing. ("If people want to change the rules that are written in black and white because they think it makes for a more effective market structure, we are all for it," is what he told Bloomberg Television.) And now some CDS participants are working on doing that:Elliott Capital Management and Apollo Global Management are among firms working on closing loopholes that have allowed investors to profit from engineering defaults on a company’s debt, according to people with knowledge of the matter. CQS and Anchorage Capital are also part of the group, the people said. ...The group is being shepherded by law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, the people said, asking not to be identified as the discussions are private. There’s no set deadline to come up with solutions, they said, and the negotiations are likely to be complicated by the fact that a number of the firms have found themselves on the opposite side of such situations.I think this will be harder than it looks. You can close some of the obvious loopholes that led to the Hovnanian and Codere situations -- in particular, you can revise the rules so that CDS isn't triggered when a company defaults on debt to itself, as Hovnanian did -- but I suspect it is hard to capture in print the intuition of a company "engineering" a default. All corporate debt defaults are to some extent intentional, planned, structured, and financed, while even the fake-y Hovnanian and Codere defaults came from a place of real credit pressures. Distinguishing real defaults that should trigger CDS from fake defaults that shouldn't is a subtle problem, and writing down one set of distinctions in the rules may just shift how the game is played.Murder startup!Here is the story of Nectome, a Y-Combinator-backed startup that will hook its customers up to a machine "in order to pump its mix of scientific embalming chemicals into the big carotid arteries in their necks" until they are dead. Honestly ... it has ... a certain ... appeal. Like if you could interact with only one tech company's products, and your choices were Twitter or Nectome, it wouldn't be insane to choose Nectome. (Incidentally I hope the etymology is "neck" + "tomb.") Co-founder Robert McIntyre points out that Nectome's procedure is "100 percent fatal": "That is why we are uniquely situated among the Y Combinator companies." It's a great marketing pitch! Sure lots of hot startups will probably kill you, but with Nectome death is certain (and anesthetized!). Who else can promise that? Oh fine also Nectome will upload your brain to the cloud or whatever so that when the singularity arrives you can live forever in a simulation, if that appeals to you. If that appeals to you, though, you probably think that we are already living in a simulation, so why spend any of your precious simulation cycles uploading your brain to an in-simulation simulation? But then, why do people use virtual-reality headsets to put themselves into an immersive experience of sitting at a desk using Microsoft Word? Why does anyone do anything? Really the startup that kills you by pumping embalming fluid into your neck is probably not the stupidest startup you'll read about this week.Elsewhere in tech and comedy, Elon Musk has hired a bunch of writers from the Onion to work "on a secret project financially backed by Musk," and I hope it is The Boring Company. The Boring Company is Musk's apparently-real-ish company that wants to drill holes in the ground to build new transit options; it has a second-hand drill named Godot that is operated by "interns and people doing it part time," it is funded in part by flamethrower sales, and it is named The Boring Company. Surely Musk is getting a little help from comedy writers on that project? And what an irresistible project for a comedy writer: Not only can Musk probably pay you more than the Onion can, but also if you go work for Musk you can write comedy that will then happen in real life. At the Onion, you can sit around imagining hilarious absurd things for tech companies to do and then write headlines about them. Working for Musk, you can sit around imagining hilarious absurd things for tech companies to do and then go do them. I hope Musk and his comedy team are behind Nectome. National security.Here is one way of characterizing how Broadcom Ltd.'s proposed hostile takeover of Qualcomm Inc. ended up getting blocked on national-security grounds:In December, Qualcomm’s leaders, reeling from a year of battles with customers and regulators in the U.S. and abroad, faced the prospect of losing the company to a hostile takeover by Broadcom Ltd. in what would be tech’s biggest-ever takeover.One potential hurdle to the bid, Qualcomm executives discussed, was a protracted national-security review, according to people familiar with the matter. Qualcomm lawyers reached out to Covington & Burling LLP, which suggested filing unilaterally and proactively for review of a possible deal by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. to understand the risks, the people said.They reached out "to understand the risks." In the disinterested exercise of their fiduciary duties, Qualcomm's board wanted just to innocently ask CFIUS whether it might block the deal. If the answer was no, then great, that was one obstacle removed and the board could focus on other things. (Like its view "that Broadcom’s proposal dramatically undervalues Qualcomm.") If the answer was yes, then obviously it should warn shareholders about that risk before they voted in the proxy fight that Broadcom was running to try to get the deal through. It was just a matter of getting all the relevant information to help inform the shareholders' decision.Presumably there are different ways to reach out to CFIUS, different aspects of the industry and the transaction that you could choose to highlight. A friendly merger target who really wants to get the deal done will pitch the deal to CFIUS one way; a hostile merger target who really wants to fend off a bidder will pitch it another way. The understanding of the risks that you get out of CFIUS will depend at least in part on the understanding that you put in.Another way to characterize the process here might be: Qualcomm reached out to Covington to see if it could block the deal on national-security grounds, and Covington recommended filing unilaterally with CFIUS in order to make its best national-security case against the deal. And Qualcomm did that and it worked. As a matter of takeover defense tactics, this turned out to be very effective -- more effective than it would have been in previous administrations, and possibly an example for future takeover defense efforts. That seems more ... psychologically plausible? The board thought Broadcom's offer was insufficient, wanted to reject it, and did reject it. Surely its CFIUS efforts were part of that defense, rather than just a neutral effort to understand CFIUS's position? (Possibly relevant: "Qualcomm Outspent Broadcom About 100 to 1 in Washington Lobbying.") But of course as a board of directors you can never say that. In a world driven by shareholder value, a board's duties are to its shareholders; talking to CFIUS can be justified as a way to inform the shareholders of the closing risk of a transaction, but not as a way to prevent a transaction that the board doesn't want but that shareholders might.The crypto.Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, "who run the Gemini exchange for trading Bitcoin and Ether, have submitted a proposal to create the Virtual Commodity Association, a self-regulatory organization meant to police digital-currency markets and custodians," which you can read here. Look, I get it: The U.S. stock exchanges are run as self-regulatory organizations, and there is a lot of value to having market participants get together to set the rules of their own markets with oversight from government regulators. But no one who has seen my email inbox would suggest a self-regulatory organization for cryptocurrencies. There are just too many frauds and loonies in the space, too many people who think that the whole point of crypto is that no laws apply. In theory the SRO would be a way to clean that up a bit, but first you'd have to fill the SRO with calm regulatory-minded people, and then how representative would it be?Speaking of crypto-garbage in inboxes, "Google will ban online advertisements promoting cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings starting in June, part of a broader crackdown on the marketing of a new breed of high-risk financial products." So, you know, if you get Money Stuff in Gmail, don't freak out if Google starts giving you big red warnings or sending it to your spam folder. It's just that we seem to talk a lot about crypto around here. I don't like it any more than Google does.Elsewhere: People are worried about bond market liquidity."Not a Single Japanese 10-Year Bond Traded Tuesday," is the headline here, and you think you have it bad in U.S. corporate credit!Happy Bear Stearns Day!To me the real anniversary of the global financial crisis will always be September 15, the day in 2008 when Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy and Merrill Lynch was bought by Bank of America, but March 14, the day in 2008 when the tottering Bear Stearns was acquired by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in a deal subsidized by the U.S. government, is not a bad alternative. Here are some reminiscences of that time under the headline "Ten Years After the Bear Stearns Bailout, Nobody Thinks It Would Happen Again."Things happen.How Amazon Became Corporate America’s Nightmare. Merrill Lynch Bolsters Business Serving Richest Clients. China’s Sovereign Fund Sells Out of Pre-Crisis Blackstone Investment. Measure of US borrowing costs flashes amber. Liquidity Crises in the Mortgage Market. New York financier Lynn Tilton puts Zohar funds into bankruptcy. United Continental Holdings Inc. is murdering dogs now. Stephen Hawking, Who Examined the Universe and Explained Black Holes, Dies at 76. Happy Pi Day.If you'd like to get Money Stuff in handy email form, right in your inbox, please subscribe at this link. Thanks! To contact the author of this story:          Matt Levine     at mlevine51@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          James Greiff      at jgreiff@bloomberg.net

2018-03-13T16:16:04.985Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-13/winklevoss-twins-have-a-plan-to-police-cryptocurrency-trading
The Winklevoss twins have taken on their next project in the cryptocurrency world: regulation.Cameron Winklevoss and Tyler WinklevossThe brothers, who run the Gemini exchange for trading Bitcoin and Ether, have submitted a proposal to create the Virtual Commodity Association, a self-regulatory organization meant to police digital-currency markets and custodians. The non-profit group would aim to develop industry standards, promote transparency and work with regulators including the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to prevent fraud.“The promise of virtual commodities and their impact on the future will be profound -- but individuals and institutions need to feel safe and secure when transacting,” the brothers wrote in a statement. “We believe a thoughtful SRO framework that provides a virtual commodity regulatory program for the virtual commodity industry is the next logical step in the maturation of this market.”Read more about how the Winklevoss brothers want to expand their reachRegulators including the CFTC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission heavily rely on self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, to help them monitor trading in everything from obscure swaps to shares in the biggest U.S. companies. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which is funded by the industry, is the front-line regulator for Wall Street brokerages.Currently, no federal regulator has direct authority over the cadre of exchanges that trade cryptocurrencies in the spot market. Instead, there’s a patchwork of state laws serving as the legal framework that critics say invites abuse and potential manipulation.To fill the gap, CFTC Republican Commissioner Brian Quintenz has called for cryptocurrency exchanges to form a private regulator or SRO. In a Tuesday statement, he praised the Winklevoss plan.“I congratulate Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss on their energetic leadership and thoughtful approach in outlining a virtual commodity self-regulatory organization (SRO) concept,” he said. “I encourage Gemini (or any other market participant, advocacy group, platform, or firm) to be aggressive in promoting these qualities within any SRO construct.”The Virtual Commodity Association would be funded by membership fees and would be open to trading venues that cater to U.S. investors. Members would be required to adhere to certain rules related to fiscal responsibility, cybersecurity and information sharing, and would face sanctions if they didn’t comply.

2018-03-12T04:24:12.115Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/crypto-exchange-offers-a-250-000-bounty-for-hacker-tip-offs
One of the world’s biggest cryptocurrency exchanges is going on the offensive to deter hacking attempts that have plagued the industry.Binance, founded by Zhao Changpeng, is offering the equivalent of $250,000 (paid in cryptocurrency) for information that leads to the arrest of hackers who targeted the venue last week, it said in a statement on Sunday. The exchange has set aside $10 million for future bounties and is encouraging other platforms to do the same, it said.Zhao ChangpengBinance disclosed last week that it had been the target of a “large-scale phishing and stealing attempt.” While the exchange said “all funds are safe,” Binance noted that it was unable to reverse some trades from accounts targeted by the hackers.Read more: Bitcoin’s Wildest Days Are Over as Regulators CircleAs prices of digital assets have soared, the platforms that trade them have become increasingly juicy targets for cyber thieves. Hackers stole tokens worth about $700 million from venues in Japan and Italy since the start of this year. The robberies have added pressure on both exchanges and regulators to do more to protect investors.

2018-03-08T14:01:04.625Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-08/bitcoin-s-latest-rub-is-overhang-ghost-from-mt-gox-bankruptcy
Bitcoin investors seething over a clampdown on Japanese cryptocurrency exchanges and renewed regulatory scrutiny of trading venues in the U.S. now have bigger fish to fry as they assign blame for the recent price decline.They’re citing the attorney Nobuaki Kobayashi, known as the Tokyo “whale,” for helping to push Bitcoin below $10,000 this week, when news emerged that in his role as bankruptcy trustee he has been liquidating cryptocurrencies on behalf of creditors in the now-defunct Mt. Gox crypto exchange.“Now *this* has been causing a headwind for Bitcoin recently,” said Alistair Milne, a self-described “Bitcoin evangelist,” on Twitter, referring to Kobayashi’s disclosure that he’s sold about $400 million of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash since late September. Both are down about 19 percent from Monday.On the online message board Reddit, users urged each other to contact the trustee to complain about the sales. Kobayashi has said he tried to get “as high a price as possible” as he sold off some of the considerable Bitcoin hoard left behind when Mt. Gox collapsed four years ago. He also said he’s studying further sales of the $1.8 billion remaining -- an overhang that can depress prices.The trustee’s disclosure was cited by eToro Ltd.’s head cryptotrader as a driver for this week’s selloff in the world’s largest digital token.The outrage may be misplaced, however. Rather than exerting downward pressure on prices through his Bitcoin sales from late September, Kobayashi also likely sold into a climbing market as the digital token reached its December peak. He is also required to compensate Japanese creditors in yen.Bitcoin fell 6.3 percent to $9,318 at 12:02 p.m. in New York. Bitcoin Cash, an offshoot of the main coin, dropped 6.1 percent to $1,021.— With assistance by Tracy Alloway

2018-03-13T05:00:00.004Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-13/how-biggest-ico-wants-to-put-money-into-your-messages-quicktake
Cryptocurrency ventures raised about $4 billion last year in initial coin offerings. It was a mad scramble of ICOs that saw companies with a mere scrap of an idea -- and even some that had been formed as jokes -- attract investors and the increasingly skeptical attention of regulators around the world. Now, Telegram Group Inc., the messaging service registered in the British Virgin Islands, is in the midst of the biggest ICO ever. It anticipates receiving $2.55 billion in three rounds of funding, according to documents seen by Bloomberg.Telegram’s differences with most other ICOs go well beyond size. It’s a provider of encrypted messages that’s already become popular within the cryptocurrency community. It has an established brand, claims over 170 million users and has registered its ICO with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The service has won the trust of users ranging from Islamic State terrorists to French President Emmanuel Macron. Even so, some in the digital-coin world remain skeptical, passing on the offer.Founder Pavel Durov, a Russian expatriate, wants money to expand and compete with bigger rivals. Facebook Inc.-owned WhatsApp and Messenger dominate the market. Durov has said he won’t give up control of Telegram to other investors. The ICO structure lets him raise funds while keeping control.Durov plans to create a new, bigger blockchain platform and then issue a mass-market cryptocurrency to run on the system that will be called the Telegram Open Network. He’s using the ICO to sell the virtual coins called Grams for use within the messaging app, allowing payments that leave few traces of identity. Investors are paying for to-be-issued Grams at a specified price that already escalated in the second round. The plan is that next year, Grams can be traded or exchanged into fiat currencies. The new network aims to include a digital wallet, storage services similar to those of Dropbox Inc., a proxy layer to hide identity, an applications platform and a payments channel. The funds will also cover operating expenses and corporate costs.Blockchain networks, the public ledger systems that make cryptocurrencies possible, have been plagued by periodic bottlenecks. In perhaps its most grandiose goal, Telegram says its next-generation network aims to clear millions of transactions per second, compared to 7 to 15 per second for crypto market leaders Bitcoin and Ethereum, to potentially challenge Visa and Mastercard as a mainstream payments network. In one sense, the ICO investors are just pre-paying for Grams. But they could also benefit should the coins appreciate over time. Grams were priced at $0.38 in the ICO’s first round, $1.33 in its second round and may be priced higher at the remaining round.In its first round in February, Durov raised $850 million from venture capital funds, and in the two remaining rounds, in March and possibly June, is seeking another $850 million in each, according to informational documents that contain a number of caveats. So far, the ICO has been offered privately and, in the U.S., only to people of at least a certain level of wealth, known as accredited investors. Telegram is considering advancing ultimately to a public ICO -- in which anyone could buy Grams, according to company documents. It is promising to return money to investors should it fail to create the planned blockchain with a built-in cryptocurrency by late 2019.Some long-time cryptocurrency investors are skeptical that Telegram will be able to fulfill its many promises and have passed on the deal. The company’s technical white paper doesn’t add anything to blockchain research that would suggest it can deal with problems that major live projects, like Ethereum, haven’t been able to resolve. “It’s like claiming to solve cold fusion or cancer,” Pantera Capital’s Charles Noyes said. Bart Stephens of Blockchain Capital said that with the pull-back in crypto prices, Telegram’s “valuation is even more problematic relative to more established tokens/coins like Bitcoin and Ether.”Many startups -- such as EOS, Tezos, Filecoin and others -- have been raising hundreds of millions of U.S. dollars to create new, potentially disruptive businesses from scratch, based on distributed ledger technology. Unlike some of the startups, Telegram already has a strong existing business and team of developers led by Durov’s older brother, mathematician Nikolai Durov. The same team previously created Russian social network VK.com which beats Facebook by the number of users in the country. Also, most ICOs raise money in Bitcoins and Ether from the cryptocurrency investors, while Telegram is raising funds in a traditional, fiat currency, and mostly from classic, not crypto-focused venture investors.The SEC and other regulators have been cracking down on many ICOs, saying they are securities offerings in disguise. While many companies doing ICOs say the goal is to let people who want to use a product fund its development by buying the tokens it would use, regulators say that in most cases investors really are hoping to sell their tokens as their price goes up. The SEC views tradeable coins as securities. It has repeatedly warned that the U.S. ICO market may be full of fraud. Telegram, which is striving to create a mainstream product, files disclosures with the SEC.Telegram developers might fail to build a superior blockchain with high-speed transactions. National governments may also introduce legislation, restricting transactions in virtual coins. If Gram fails to become a mass-market cryptocurrency, investors may end up with so-called candy wrappers, losing much or all of their money.Durov. He may be taking this route because in his earlier venture, VK.com, he lost control of his social network to powerful billionaire Alisher Usmanov. Like an IPO, the token sale determines a certain value for Telegram. In total, raising $2.55 billion for 66 percent of Telegram’s tokens implies a market value of $3.86 billion.— With assistance by Olga Voitova, and Laurence Arnold

2018-03-12T20:00:00.001Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/central-banks-urged-to-study-digital-currency-risks-and-rewards
Digital currencies are a revolutionary tool that central banks should consider, but they remain far too risky to be used as legal tender any time soon, according to the Bank for International Settlements.The BIS -- the club of the world’s largest central banks -- said in a report on Monday that the new form of money could one day be issued by policy makers for tasks such as settling payments among financial institutions. At the same time, it warned that digital coins might destabilize traditional lenders if offered widely to the general public.“General-purpose central-bank digital currencies could revolutionize the way money is provided and the role of central banks in the financial system, but these are uncharted waters,” said Benoit Coeure, a European Central Bank board member who chairs the BIS Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures.The Basel, Switzerland-based BIS cautioned that much more “experimentation and experience” would be needed before the introduction of central-bank digital currencies, or CBDCs, could even be considered.As Bitcoin and its peers threaten to invade central bankers’ home turf, national authorities are probing new ways of making payments, and the topic of regulation is on the agenda of Group of 20 finance chiefs who will meet next week in Buenos Aires.More than 1,200 years after the first paper banknotes appeared in China, the use of physical cash is in demise in various countries as digital transactions surge. The rise of distributed-ledger technologies and the peer-to-peer concept of private digital money challenges the raison d’être of central banks, which for centuries have dominated currency issuance and paid their bills by doing it.What the world’s central banks are saying about crypto currenciesOpinions about issuing CBDCs diverge greatly. While Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and Bank of England Governor Mark Carney have expressed skepticism, the Riksbank in Sweden, where more than a third of the population never uses cash, is considering the introduction of an e-krona as a complement to banknotes and coins.The BIS concluded that wholesale digital currencies and their underlying technologies have the potential to make settlement of securities and derivatives transactions more efficient, even though proposals so far look broadly similar and not clearly superior to those in place.Likewise, digital currencies could serve as a “robust and convenient” alternative to cash, but already available, fast and efficient retail payment products -- such as the European Central Bank’s TIPS -- probably limit its benefits.Read more: ECB’s Mersch Says His Payment System Is Better Than BlockchainThe issuance of CBDCs probably wouldn’t change the basic mechanisms for carrying out monetary policy, the BIS said. However, it could challenge the two-tier banking system and exacerbate any financial crisis as depositors seek havens for their cash.A CBDC “could allow for ‘digital runs’ towards the central bank with unprecedented speed and scale,” the BIS said. “Even in the presence of deposit insurance, the stability of retail funding could weaken because a risk-free CBDC provides a very safe alternative.”The appeal of a such a currency would be more pronounced if it were interest-bearing. A liquid and creditworthy asset could compete with short-term government debt and regular bank deposits, potentially leading to more volatility in those financial-market segments, according to the report.The BIS also highlighted that, like banknotes, digital currencies can fall victim to illegalities -- as a direct target or a means of transaction.Coeure indicated on a conference call with reporters that the initiative to regulate private cryptocurrencies, led by Germany and France, probably won’t immediately result in concrete action.The BIS urged central banks to continue their studies of digital innovations and also consider the implications of not issuing CBDCs. The Fed’s Powell said last year that “governance and risk management will be critical” for cryptocurrencies.“Technological developments have raised questions about the feasibility and desirability of combining distributed ledger technology with the trust inherent in fiat currencies to create a central bank digital currency available to all,” Carney, who chairs the BIS’s Global Economy Meeting and the Financial Stability Board, said in a statement alongside the report. “The policy issues that this would raise, for central banks and society more generally, need careful consideration.”

2018-03-12T11:00:11.003Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-12/vc-fund-wants-to-create-an-airbnb-mafia-with-a-little-help-from-airbnb
There were some obvious risks to the announcement from Airbnb Inc. CEO Brian Chesky, back in February, that his company won’t go public in 2018. Tech workers are a notoriously restless bunch, and by further postponing an initial public offering, Chesky took a chance that his most talented employees could defect during Airbnb’s home stretch as a private company.Riley Newman is one executive who got away. One of the first 10 employees at the company rose to run its data science unit and then left last summer to start a San Francisco venture capital firm called Wave Capital. This month, another well-regarded executive, Sara Adler, Airbnb’s head of corporate development, quietly left the company and joined Newman as a general partner.And one of Wave Capital’s first investments? A startup founded by another former Airbnb executives: Dan Hill, who was director of product and performance marketing. Hill’s company is tentatively called Give Local and aims to connect prospective donors with local philanthropies.All of this sounds rather grim for the decade-old home-rental startup, currently valued by investors at about $31 billion. But I’d argue that amid all the recent hand-wringing over the health of Silicon Valley, Wave Capital demonstrates one of this tech community’s unique strengths.Wave Capital has raised around $50 million, say two people familiar with the firm’s financing, and will soon become one of hundreds of Bay area investment firms focused on providing seed funding for startups. But Wave Capital also has a more specific mission: Newman, Adler and their third partner, David Rosenthal, a former principal at Seattle-based Madrona Venture Group, aim to back exiting Airbnb employees who are eager to start their own businesses.Airbnb, they are predicting, will produce an “Airbnb mafia” akin to the notorious network of founders and investors who sprang out of PayPal 15 years ago, Peter Thiel and Elon Musk among them. “There are a ton of these people that are raring to go,” says Adler. They are “mulling over their decisions and the time horizons they want to spend [at the company.] It feels like there is a ton of excitement for people to do what’s next.”Already, Airbnb has helped birth two high-profile startups. Cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase Inc. was founded by Brian Armstrong, who worked for two years as a software engineer at Airbnb; and database company Mesosphere Inc. was started by Florian Leibert, who also spent time at Airbnb.Wave Capital wants to help create more of these Airbnb-lings. It wasn’t the first to pursue the idea of creating an Airbnb mafia. There was another fledgling firm trying to raise money in the last year to back the dreams of Airbnb employees. That effort—initiated by Jonathan Golden, Airbnb’s former director of product, and Andrew Swain, its former CFO—was recently abandoned when investors coalesced around Wave Capital, say people familiar with the behind-the-scenes machinations, who asked not to be identified because the details are private.You’d think that all of this would be creating massive headaches for Chesky and his crew. An Airbnb spokesman didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment outside regular business hours, but there’s evidence they may be OK with Wave Capital. Nathan Blecharczyk, Airbnb’s co-founder and chief strategy officer, has invested in Wave Capital and is advising it, say people close to the firm. It’s conceivable that Chesky himself could invest.One way to think of the firm is like a bee performing a vital role in the ecosystem, taking some of Airbnb’s entrepreneurial pollen and helping to spread it elsewhere in the community. And that is where Silicon Valley is unique. People here tend to realize that talented engineers and executives will pursue their own startup dreams once they vest their stock, regardless of IPO timelines or questions of loyalty. There’s a natural tension between companies like Airbnb and efforts like Wave Capital, of course, but everyone just agrees to live with it and sometimes even to exploit it.Plus, Newman and Adler at Wave Capital are promising not to take it too far because each has a stake in Airbnb’s success. “Sara and I are both shareholders,” Newman says. “We don’t want to plunder it.”This article also ran in Bloomberg Technology’s Fully Charged newsletter. Sign up here.Don’t put Boxed in a box. The online wholesaler rejected a $400 million acquisition offer from supermarket giant Kroger and will raise a new round of funding to combat the likes of Amazon and Walmart.The Bitcoin bubble evokes the first web mania. Writer Paul Ford reminisces eloquently about the passion that powered the early web as he watches Bitcoin aficionados obsess.From fronting a 90s cover band to tech billionaire, Drew Houston is the subject of a compelling New York Times profile. The co-founder and CEO of Dropbox filed last month for his company to go public and will soon set a price range for the impending IPO.Dreamers are still targeting the Moon. Although Google pulled funding from the Lunar X Prize, teams from Israel, Japan and the U.S. are still moving forward.

2018-03-12T15:46:58.571Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-03-12/goldman-retreats-from-blankfein-s-trading-legacy-with-solomon
The bankers are reinheriting some of Wall Street's most precious earth.Goldman Sachs Group Inc. announced on Monday that David Solomon would become sole president, edging out Harvey Schwartz, who is leaving the firm. The move all but ensures that Solomon will succeed Lloyd Blankfein as chief executive officer. The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Blankfein would step down by the end of the year, though Blankfein offered little clarification. The Solomon elevation appears to be a move in that direction.Blankfein's departure, whenever that is, will culminate a period in which Goldman seemed unsure of what its future should be. Blankfein suggested at times that he would like the firm to be the Walmart of Wall Street, ambitiously building up a staid consumer lending business. At other times, Goldman's leaders pointed to Apple or Google. Blankfein never seemed willing to relinquish Goldman's brash trading culture, which had paved his rise to power -- he once famously stormed out of a management meeting because the firm was unwilling to make as big a bet as he liked -- but has more recently led to some embarrassing losses. At the height of the bitcoin frenzy last year, Blankfein said his firm wanted in even as other Wall Street leaders remained cautious about trading the cryptocurrency. Investors are no longer giving Goldman Sachs a premium it once had over rivalsSource: BloombergThe promotion of Solomon indicates that Goldman is not only moving on from Blankfein but from his legacy as well. Blankfein took over Goldman in 2006, when the balance of power on Wall Street was shifting to traders. (Goldman's previous CEO, Hank Paulson, had come up on the investment banking side of the firm.) That trading culture paid off in Blankfein's first few years, and particularly during the financial crisis. But it also tarnished Goldman's reputation and has been a dud recently. Regulations and shifts such as the rise of indexing have made Wall Street's trading desks less profitable. Blankfein continued to pine for the old days. He has repeatedly said he would ramp up the firm's risk-taking again if regulators would allow it.Goldman Sachs still derives more of its revenue from  trading than its rivals doSource: BloombergData for 2017.Solomon, like Paulson before him, has spent much of his career as an investment banker. He ran investment banking at Bear Stearns, leaving well before that firm collapsed. Schwartz, the other logical candidate for CEO, came from commodities trading, like Blankfein. (Incidentally, so did President Donald Trump's recently departed economic adviser Gary Cohn. The selection of Solomon suggests that Cohn might not have been the lock for Blankfein's successor that everyone thought he was, even if hadn't departed for Washington.) Solomon's elevation resolves some of Goldman's identity crisis. And it got the thumbs up from investors, who have become increasingly wary of Goldman's continued embrace of risk. Shares of Goldman jumped almost $4 on the news on Monday, to nearly $275, before retreating somewhat. But it will also leave Solomon with plenty of tough decisions to make. Goldman, with more than 36,000 employees, has doubled in size since Paulson took over in 1999. It's unclear whether a firm more focused on investment banking can support as large a cost structure. Less trading and less risk may lead to more predictable profits but also less opportunity for outsized gains and bonuses. Investors and employees will have to adjust accordingly. Trump's regulators are probably more open to allowing Goldman to do an acquisition. But buying another bank would tilt Goldman further into the lending business, and perhaps dilute its white-shoe brand.What is clear is that the sun is setting on the Blankfein era. The dawn of the Solomon era heralds less risk and quite possible less reward.To contact the author of this story:      Stephen Gandel in    New York at sgandel2@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Daniel Niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-07T10:32:53.907Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-07/bitcoin-s-tokyo-whale-sold-400-million-and-he-s-not-done-yet
He’s not your typical Bitcoin whale, but Nobuaki Kobayashi has become a force to be reckoned with in the cryptocurrency world.The Tokyo attorney and bankruptcy trustee for the now-defunct Mt. Gox exchange disclosed on Wednesday that he sold about $400 million of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash since late September. Kobayashi, who’s liquidating the tokens on behalf of Mt. Gox creditors, has another $1.9 billion to offload.Mt. Gox's bankruptcy trustee is offloading cryptocurrencies to repay creditorsOnce the world’s biggest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox filed for bankruptcy protection four years ago after disclosing that it lost 850,000 Bitcoins, then worth about $500 million. The company, which later said it recovered about 200,000 Bitcoins, blamed hackers for the loss.Read more: Bitcoin Dives After SEC Says Crypto Platforms Must Be RegisteredWhile Kobayashi didn’t provide details of his strategy for selling the coins, he said he tried to get “as high a price as possible.” Disclosures in his report on the Mt. Gox website suggest his Bitcoin sales since September fetched the equivalent of $10,105 on average. The cryptocurrency was trading at $10,031 as of 6:45 a.m. Hong Kong time on Thursday.For more on cryptocurrencies, check out the Decrypted podcast:

2018-03-06T11:30:20.686Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/gadfly/articles/2018-03-06/fintech-s-bitcoin-crutch-charts
Good morning! This is Fly Charts, the daily charts-only newsletter from Gadfly; sign up here. From India's mobile movement to the greening of China, here are four charts that tell you what you need to know in business today.Local markets are so jaded by years of creaking coalition governments that they didn't really react to Italy's rightward turn.Source: BloombergChina's solar panel dominance and other heavy green-energy investments represent a seismic shift in the global energy market.Source: Bloomberg New Energy FinanceNote: Annual manufacturing capacity for crystalline silicon modules.Beware of fintech companies announcing an out-of-nowhere pivot to bitcoin.Source: BloombergNearly 30% of movie tickets in India are purchased by mobile phone. And mobile wallets in the country are controlled by tech giants, not banks.Source: YouGov-Bernstein Proprietary SurveyAnd don't miss Stephen Gandel on how firms are actually using the Trump tax cuts: "Overall, companies have announced plans for just less than 80 percent of their tax savings. Add those retained earnings, which also boost the value of companies' shares, to increases in buybacks and dividends, and roughly 60 percent of the gains from the tax bill are going to shareholders, compared with 15 percent for employees. That includes increases in benefits as well as salaries. Philanthropic pledges account for less than 3 percent."To contact the author of this story:      Max Nisen in    New York at mnisen@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:               Mark Gongloff at mgongloff1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-09T07:19:54.551Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-09/cash-may-disappear-in-china-as-payments-go-digital-pboc-says
Just because China’s financial regulators are cracking down on cryptocurrencies doesn’t mean they’re souring on the idea of digital money.People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan made that clear at a press conference in Beijing on Friday, saying physical cash may one day become obsolete. Zhou said the PBOC is looking into digital currencies as it pursues faster, cheaper and more convenient payment methods, even as he warned that cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin -- more often used for speculation than payments -- don’t serve the economy.“We must prevent major mistakes that would lead to irreparable losses, so we are cautious," Zhou said during what may be one of his last public appearances before his expected retirement. "We don’t like creating products for speculation and making people have the illusion that they can get rich overnight."China, once home to the world’s most active Bitcoin exchanges, banned the venues last year amid a broad-ranging clampdown on virtual currencies. Yet the country is still the world leader in digital payments, thanks to the popularity of platforms developed by tech giants Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Tencent Holdings Ltd.— With assistance by Tian Chen, and Jun Luo

2018-03-08T15:48:08.532Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-08/winklevoss-twins-say-crypto-exchange-wants-to-offer-more-coins
The Winklevoss twins said their main 2018 goal for Gemini Exchange, the Bitcoin and Ethereum trading platform they run, is eyeing expansion to other tokens such as Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin.Their comments have significance for Cboe Global Markets Inc., Gemini’s partner on Bitcoin futures. Cboe, a Chicago-based exchange, has signaled it wants to offer futures contracts on digital currencies besides Bitcoin, but it needs Gemini’s help.Gemini has an exclusive deal to supply the data used to calculate Cboe’s Bitcoin contract. Cboe could presumably add Ethereum now, given Gemini trades that, but expanding further would require Gemini widening its roster. Tyler Winklevoss said the licensing agreement with Cboe is scalable, and they entered into the deal knowing it could expand in terms of offerings.Obvious candidates for expansion “are from the Satoshi Nakamoto family tree -- Bitcoin cash, Litecoin,” Tyler Winklevoss said.Adding Bitcoin cash and Litecoin would increase Gemini’s offerings to the same as Coindesk Inc., a major U.S. rival. That could boost the value of both: When Coinbase added coins in the past, the prices shot up.In their remarks on Thursday at a Cboe event in Florida, Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss said they “applaud” the statement from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday saying that platforms serving as venues for digital assets that are securities will need to register with the agency as a national exchange, or qualify for an exemption.They also said they aren’t concerned about the recent slowdown in Bitcoin volume, as it’s happened dozens of times before and the long-term trend is still in the right direction. The customer quality and institutional base is better even than a year ago, they said, and “futures have gotten off to an incredible start.”“In 2018, you’re really going to see institutions and Wall Street really get in, and it’s going to look very different,” Tyler Winklevoss said.— With assistance by Matthew Leising

2018-03-10T14:57:29.600Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-03-10/blankfein-s-bet-and-basketball-heaven
The weekend is here! Pour yourself a mug of peaberry coffee, grab a seat where you can see the birds feeding, and get ready for our longer-form weekend reads:Be sure to check out our Masters in Business interview this weekend with writer and media strategist Ryan Holiday, former director of marketing for American Apparel. He is the author of six books, including “The Daily Stoic” and most recently “Conspiracy: Peter Thiel, Hulk Hogan, Gawker, and the Anatomy of Intrigue.”Source: Bloomberg GadflyWant to receive our daily reads in your inbox? Sign up here!To contact the author of this story:          Barry Ritholtz     at britholtz3@bloomberg.netTo contact the editor responsible for this story:          Brooke Sample     at bsample1@bloomberg.net

2018-03-07T22:09:04.973Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-07/asia-stocks-set-to-gain-as-u-s-shares-pare-drop-markets-wrap
U.S. stocks rose after President Donald Trump announced tariffs that were narrower than some traders had anticipated. Treasuries and the dollar gained.The S&P 500 advanced for the fourth time in five days as investors found relief in the president’s decision to exclude Canada and Mexico while giving other countries wiggle room from levies on imports of steel and aluminum. Technology shares paced gains. Ten-year Treasury yields fell to 2.86 percent.The dollar rose against the euro after the European Central Bank’s decided to drop a pledge to increase asset purchases if necessary, and as President Mario Draghi downplayed the change. Crude oil traded near $60 a barrel and gold slipped as a Bloomberg gauge of commodities slid for a second day.President Donald Trump speaks with reporters about his tariff plans during a Cabinet session at the White House.“Investors have to take a deep breath and watch what the reality is. It’s a highly complex situation that investors have to try to game, where they believe these [Nafta] negotiations will finally land,” said Chad Morganlander, a portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, said by phone. “This is a lever for negotiating the Nafta deal, and investors are watching this in a careful way, with one eye on the market and one eye on trade negotiations.”The specter of a global trade war has had markets on edge this week, as Trump’s threats of steel and aluminum tariffs were met with talk of retaliation in China and Europe. The ECB’s surprise change in language signaled its confidence in the euro area economy even as the concerns rumble on. However in his press briefing after the decision, Draghi acknowledged that protectionist threats represent a downside risk and described unilateral trade decisions as “dangerous.” Investors are now eyeing the upcoming central bank decision in Japan.Terminal users can read more in our markets blog.Here are some key events coming up this week:And these are the main moves in markets:— With assistance by Ven Ram, Eddie van der Walt, Kailey Leinz, and Sarah Ponczek

2018-03-07T21:30:12.420Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-07/the-daily-prophet-at-least-equity-strategists-are-confident-jehlkb9l
It’s easy to fall into the trap of thinking that the day-to-day gyrations of stocks actually say something about the health of companies or the state of the economy. In reality, stock prices can often disconnect from the fundamentals, and Wednesday seems to have been one of those days as the major U.S. equities indexes fell for most of the day amid concern about the rising potential for trade wars and a shrinking pool of economic experts within the White House.Yes, those issues are certainly important enough to warrant caution, but what they are not doing is denting the optimism of those whose job is to analyze and prognosticate on topics such as corporate earnings, revenues and stock prices. At the start of February, every sell-side analyst’s 12-month price target for members of the S&P 500 implied the benchmark would rise to 3,061. But even though the S&P 500 has fallen 3.44 percent since then to 2,726.85, the analysts have gotten more bullish, with their price targets implying a future level of 3,099, according to DataTrek Research. Plus, Wall Street analysts have boosted their percentage of “buy” recommendations in the past month, from 50.2 percent of their stock coverage universe to 51.4 percent. That’s not all. Citing FactSet research, DataTrek notes that analysts early last month were forecasting earnings growth of 16.8 percent for this year. That has since risen to 18.3 percent.“We’ve been arguing that U.S. equities will start to trade better once we get closer to the end of first quarter (of) 2018 and earnings season comes into focus,”  Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek, wrote in a research note Wednesday. “Frankly, we’re pleasantly surprised by how resilient U.S. stocks have been in the last two weeks but we aren’t counting our chickens yet. The next two weeks are a bit of a wasteland for corporate earnings news, and the macro narrative is challenging.”ANIMAL SPIRITS REDUXWhen CVS Health launched the third-largest corporate bond sale on record Tuesday, offering $40 billion of securities to fund its acquisition of Aetna, demand was off the charts. It was reported that investors submitted $120 billion of bids. That means a lot of potential creditors went home empty-handed. But that didn’t stop them from coming back on Wednesday to seek a piece of the drugstore giant’s debt in the secondary market. As a result, the market value of the debt gained almost $450 million, sparking a windfall for those who got in first, according to Bloomberg News’ Austin Weinstein. The bond offering was not only a big win for CVS, but also for a market that has had its worst start to the year in decades. With other big acquisition funding still in the pipeline, it was crucial for banks to set a positive tone for investment-grade debt and lure buyers back into a struggling market, Weinstein reports. “This tells us that the underlying demand for credit remains strong and that once stocks recover from the current correction, there will be even more money for buybacks and M&A,” Canaccord Genuity strategist Brian Reynolds wrote in a research note. The longest-term portion of the offering, $8 billion of bonds maturing in 30 years, were sold Tuesday at 99.4 cents on the dollar to yield 1.95 percentage point more than comparable Treasuries. On Wednesday, they were trading at 102.45 cents on the dollar to yield around 1.76 percentage points more than Treasuries midday in New York.BITCOIN ABHORS THE LIGHTCritics of cryptocurrencies like to say that they are only good for money laundering and illegal activities. Whether that’s true or not is certainly debatable, but it’s hard to deny that the market is averse to anything that sheds light on its inner workings. That was on full display Wednesday, when Bitcoin suddenly plunged almost 13 percent, its biggest drop in more than month after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reiterated that many online trading platforms for digital assets should register with the agency as exchanges. “If a platform offers trading of digital assets that are securities and operates as an ‘exchange,’ as defined by the federal securities laws, then the platform must register with the SEC as a national securities exchange or be exempt from registration,” the SEC said in a statement Wednesday. Many platforms are referring to themselves as “exchanges,” which can give the “misimpression” to investors that they are regulated or meet the regulatory standards of a national securities exchange, the SEC said in its statement. Some of the largest cryptocurrency trading platforms, such as Coinbase Inc.’s GDAX, aren’t registered as a national exchange with the SEC, and instead have money transmission licenses with separate states, according to Bloomberg News’ Camila Russo.TRADE JITTERS HIT COMMODITIESCommodities traders are bracing for a trade war. The Bloomberg Commodities Index fell the most in almost a month. Base metals, as well as precious metals used in industrial applications, slid amid reports the Trump administration is considering clamping down on Chinese investments in the U.S. and imposing tariffs on a broad range of imports, according to Bloomberg News’ Susanne Barton. The Bloomberg World Mining index fell, led by shares of Asian producers, and a gauge of metals in London was set to extend 2018 losses. Traders are increasingly concerned that any trade war could suppress growth in the global economy, which has showed signs of picking up. That, in turn, would slow demand for commodities including metals used in industries ranging from construction to aerospace. U.S. tariffs could harm economic growth, the International Monetary Fund said this week. There’s “new concern” over the Trump administration possibly targeting Chinese imports in retaliation for intellectual property theft, said Tai Wong, head of base and precious metals trading at BMO Capital Markets in New York. “Chinese response so far has been rather muted, but the prospect of a nasty tiff between the world’s two largest economies won’t help commodities in the short term.” All of the main metals on the London Metal Exchange dropped Wednesday.AFRICA GOES BOND CRAZYSenegal became the fourth successive African nation to attract $10 billion or more of orders in the sale of bonds when it offered $2.2 billion of euro- and dollar-denominated securities. The West African nation followed Egypt, Nigeria and Kenya, each of which saw investors clamoring to participate in their deals, according to Bloomberg News’ Paul Wallace. African sovereigns have now sold $10.7 billion of Eurobonds in 2018, already more than half the record $18 billion they managed last year and exceeding the total for the whole of 2016. They’re also becoming bolder: Nigeria, Kenya and Senegal have all issued 30-year tranches for the first time, having limited themselves to maturities of up to 10 years previously. Investors still crave its debt for the simple reason that it offers the highest rates in the world for sovereign Eurobonds. Africa’s debt yields 6 percent on average, compared with 5.5 percent for emerging markets generally and just 4 percent for developing nations in the Asia-Pacific region, Wallace reports. Ghana may attempt a $2 billion transaction, Ivory Coast is said to have mandated banks for a euro-denominated bond and Angola is mulling a $2 billion deal.TEA LEAVESThe last time European Central Bank policy makers met was in January. At the time, President Mario Draghi expressed confidence in the euro zone’s economic momentum, but noted that the euro’s strength “represents a source of uncertainty which requires monitoring with regard to its possible implications for the medium term outlook of price stability.” Since then, the Bloomberg Euro Index has been effectively flat, meaning that the ECB may strike a softer tone on the currency when policy makers meet Thursday. Instead, Draghi and his fellow policy makers may be content with tweaking their forward guidance, according to Bloomberg News’ Charlotte Ryan and Anooja Debnath. Recent events, including an anti-establishment surge in Italy, underpin the argument for policy makers to avoid any surprises that could shock markets.If you’d like to get The Daily Prophet in e-mail form, right in your inbox, please subscribe to this link. Thanks!DON’T MISSBe Wary of the Gap Between Stock and Bond Yields: Ben CarlsonThe Fed's New Focus Is Changing Market Relationships: Jim BiancoChinese Stocks Offer Hint at Innovation Prowess: Tracy ChenCohn's Exit Isn't the End of Western Civilization: Daniel MossIndia Should Open Door Wider to Global Bond Buyers: Mihir Sharma      Professionals offering actionable insights on markets, the economy and monetary policy. Contributors may have a stake in the areas they write about.    

2018-03-05T20:52:38.494Z
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-05/ripple-pares-gain-as-coinbase-shoots-down-trading-speculation
Ripple, the third most valuable digital token by market value, pared gains after one of the biggest U.S. cryptocurrency exchanges reiterated that it hasn’t decided whether it will add new coins to its marketplace.“Our January 4th, 2018 statement continues to stand: we have made no decision to add additional assets to either GDAX or Coinbase,” the San Francisco-based exchange said in a tweet Monday. “Any statement to the contrary is untrue and not authorized by the company.”Ripple had gained as much as 20 percent to $1.08 Monday amid speculation that Coinbase will enable trading of the asset. It’s now up 6.5 percent. A spokeswoman from Ripple declined to comment on the speculation earlier.Coinbase currently allows users to trade Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether and Litecoin.

